If goodness were always the comrade of beauty I would seek a wife to - morrow ; but as divorce between these two is no new thing , and as there are so few lovely forms that enshrine lovely souls , thus uniting both one and the other delight , do not take it amiss that I refrain from seeking such a rare combination . I have seen many marriages , but not one of them has held out allurements for me . Nevertheless , nearly the whole four quarters of mankind courageously expose themselves to this the greatest of all hazards , and—the whole four quarters usually repent it . I will tell you of one who , having repented , found that there was nothing for it but to send home again his quarrelsome , avaricious , and jealous spouse . She was one whom nothing pleased ; for her , nothing was right . For her , one rose too late ; one retired too early . First it was this , then it was that , and then again ' twas something else . The servants raged . The husband was at his wit ' s end . " You think of nothing , sir . " " You spend too much . " " You gad about , sir . " " You are idle . " Indeed she had so much to say that , in the end , tired of hearing such a termagant , he sent her to her parents in the country . There she mixed with those who minded the turkeys and pigs until she was thought to be somewhat tamed , when the husband sent for her again . " Well , my dear , how have you been getting on ? How did you spend your time ? Did you like the simple life of the country ? " " Oh , pretty well ! " she said , " but what annoyed me was to see the laziness of those people . They are worse there than here . They showed no care whatever for the herds and flocks they were supposed to mind . I didn ' t forget to let them know what I thought of them . Of course , they didn ' t like it , and they all hated me in the end . " " Ah ! my dear . If you fell foul of people whom you saw for but a moment or so in the day and when they returned in the evening—if you made them tired of you ; what will the servants in this house become , who must have you railing at them the whole day long ? And what will your poor husband do whom you expected to have near you all day and night too ? Return to the village , my dear . Adieu ! and if during my life the idea should possess me to have you back again , may I , for my sins , have two such as you for ever at my elbows in the world to come . "