Once upon a time , a purdy little mouse sat in her window full of flowers , watchin ' the folk pass by below , looking like a purdy bouquet all wrapped in them blue ribbons that she wore . And what do you know , but along comes a rooster and is so struck by the window display , well , it ' s love at first sight , and he says : " Little Mouse , Little Mouse , the heart of your bouquet , with a your purdy ribbons , will you marry me ? and the Mouse says : - Tell me can you sing ? And so the Cock sings - Cockadoodle doo ! Cockadoodle Doo ! - Ay ! Enough ! Enough ! That ' s frightening to me ! Then what do you know but along comes a chicken and she sees her beauty and says ? - Little Mouse , Little Mouse , the heart of your bouquet , will you marry me ? - Tell me can you sing ? And the hen sings - Buck , Buck , BaGock ! - Ay ! Enough ! Enough ! That ' s frightening to me ! And then who passes by but a dog and he sees Mousey in her bouquet , and now he gets enamored and says : - Little Mouse , Little mouse , the heart of your bouquet , will you marry me ? - Tell me can you sing ? and the dog sings - Woof ! Woof ! Woof ! And scared to death , the Little Mouse replies - Ay ! Enough ! Enough ! That ' s frightening to me ! And then an ox comes along and asks the same question too . And the Little Mouse says : - Tell me can you sing ? and the Ox sings - Moo . . . Moo . . . - Ay ! Enough ! Enough ! that ' s frightening to me ! And so all the animals passed under her window ; all gettin ' smitten and asking for her hand , but all totally terrifying her . Until finally a little cat comes by and spots her window , and he likes what he sees so he says : - Little Mouse , Little Mouse , the heart of your bouquet , with your pretty ribbons , will you marry me ? - Tell me can you sing ? - Meow , meow . - Ay ! Come up ! Come up ! , that ' s enchanting me me ! And up jumps the little cat and she looked so purdy and fat , he ' s thinkin ' , as purdy as can be ; and just like that he eats her .