(Valencian version) Long , long ago , there was a King who had three sons . He told them that he would give the crown to whichever of them brought him the blue lily . They set out , each on his own course , to search the world for it . The youngest found the flower and very happily tucked it into his hose , so that if he encountered his brothers , they would not see it . In the middle of a dry river bed they found him , and realizing that he was carrying the flower , one said to the other : " What will we do to take it from him and win the crown ? " The other responded : " Kill him . " And so they did , and buried him in the sand . Being two , and with just the one flower , they drew lots to see who would get it , and the elder brother won . He went home very happily , and when he arrived and gave his father the flower , the King declared him heir to the throne . A shepherd passed the place where the youngest brother was buried , and saw a white cane sticking up from the ground , which he pulled out and made into a flute . He played it , and it said : Play , play , good shepherd , and do not turn back , by the blue lily flower , I have died in the river of sand . He was playing this when he passed by the King's palace , and the King , hearing the flute , came out and called to the shepherd , saying : " Come up and play the flute for me , I want to heart it . " The shepherd entered and played the flute , and it repeated its song . The King sent for his sons , and told the shepherd to tell him where he had gotten the flute . The shepherd took them to the place where had found the flute , and the King said to his sons : " Is it you who have killed your brother ? " But they said no . Their father ordered them to dig up the sand in that place , and they found the boy alive and healthy , only missing one finger that had remained above ground while he was buried , and which had served to make the flute , and the father gave the crown to the boy and punished his brothers . He lived and reigned many years , but always without a finger . The tale is told , now it has finished , and gone through the chimney to the roof .