Long ago , at a certain village , there was Cuội who was a lumberjack . His entire fortune was only his one ax . One day , Cuội brought his ax deep into the woods to work . While he was getting through a small stream , he noticed a tiger cave . He looked around but could only see four little tigers playing around with each other in front of the cave . Cuội dashed forward , raised his ax , swung at each of the cubs ; they rolled dead on the ground . At that time , mother tiger just got back . Hearing a thunderous roar behind his back , Cuội was frighted , he threw his ax and climbed up a tall tree nearby . From above , he could see mother tiger struggling in front of her dead cubs but only a while later , she left and ran towards a base of a plant near where Cuội was hiding , grabbed some leaves with her mouth and came back to chew and fed her cubs . Only a moment later , the cubs budged , wiggled their tails and played around like normal again . Knowing this is a magic plant , Cuội waited until the mom and her cubs left before he climbed down , dug up the tree and brought it home . On his way , Cuội saw an old man lying on the grass . A closer look revealed to him that the old man was dead . The lumberjack put down his luggage , and without any hesitation picked out some leaves , chewed and fed to the old man . Magically , just when he finished feeding , the old man woke up again . He thanked the lumberjack and asked about his story . Being honest , Cuội told everything . The old man , after hearing the story , cried : Oh God ! This old man heard that this tree was once named the Reviving Banyan Tree . I am so in luck to be met by you . Please take care of this tree and save humanity , but remember not to water it with polluted water or it will fly up to the sky . After giving his words , the old man walked away with his walking stick . And Cuội brought the tree back home and planted it at a corner of his garden to take care of it every day . Always remembering the old man ' s words , he always watered the tree with the water from the clean well . From that day , Cuội saved many lives . Whenever he heard someone who had just had their last breath , he immediately brought the leaves to revive them . The rumor of his magic spread everywhere . One day , Cuội crossed a river and saw a floating dead dog . His kindness willed him to drag it out of the water and revived it with the leaves he had . The dog loyally followed him as gratitude . From that day , Cuội had the smart pet as a friend . Another time there was a wealthy man in the next village hastily came to Cuội ' s place begging him to save his dead daughter who had just drowned . Cuội followed the man back to his home and revived his daughter . In a moment , the pale face of the girl puffed pink . She opened her eyes and sat up . The wealthy man was filled with joy , said that the lumberjack could pick whatever he wants . Cuội suggested that he wanted to marry the girl . Knowing that Cuội was his savior , the daughter was pleased being his wife . The wealthy man didn ' t mind letting his daughter marry him either . The couple lived happily with each other . But in the area there were the boys who eyed the wealthy man ' s daughter , now seeing the sweet flower belonging to a lumberjack , got jealous and tried to find a way to ruin their happiness . One day when the lumberjack left to work , they conspired to kidnap Cuội ' s wife . Surprisingly , the wife fought back , so the boys murdered her . Knowing Cuội could bring back people to life , they didn ' t want to get caught so they took out the wife ' s guts and threw them into the river before leaving . Cuội got back and saw his wife was cold dead for long . He hurriedly picked the leaves to feed his wife but it didn ' t work no matter how many times he tried ; you can not be revived without your guts . Seeing his owner sobbing , the dog came near , willing to donate its own guts for its dead master . Cuội had never done that , but he followed through and gave it a shot to revive his wife . Magically , his wife lived after he replaced the dog ' s guts in . Moved by his pet ' s good deeds , Cuội shaped the guts out of clay and have it placed in for the dog . He then chewed and fed the leaves and magically the dog revived as well . Man and wife , humans and pet are now happier , cozier than ever . But the lumberjack also noticed that his wife also changed . The woman had gotten silly ; she never does what she got told to do . Cuội was upset . He was very worried because he told his wife many times - " If you pee , pee on the West , not on the East , or the tree soars . " But who knows if she remembered it . One afternoon , when the husband wasn ' t back from chopping woods , Cuội ' s wife was picking the vegetables from the the East side of the garden . She felt like peeing , ran up to the tree her husband held dear and couldn ' t remember what her husband ' s told ; she raised her skirt and peed . When she finished , the entire garden rumbled , the trees around shook up and the wind blew strong . Moment later , the banyan tree ripped itself off the garden and started floating to the sky . Right then , Cuội was back from work at the gate . Seeing his treasured tree almost floating away , and his wife yelling near by , he figured what was happening and jumped and tried to hold the tree back . But then , the tree had already floated way past man ' s height . He tried to hook his ax into the tree ' s root , but it keeps soaring . Cuội was stubborn , he used his entire body to hold it back , but it keeps soaring , and he ended up on the moon . From then on , Cuội stayed on the moon with his banyan tree . So now whenever we look up at the moon , we always see his shadow under his treasured magic tree . [ 4 ] People say that every year , only one leaf of the tree falls . Anyone who gets the leaf can use it to revive people . The dolphin knows this , so whenever the leaf falls on the ocean , they fight each other to get the leaf and save their own kind .