in olden times there was a king , who had behind his palace a beautiful pleasure-garden in which there was a tree that bore golden apples . when the apples were getting ripe they were counted , but on the very next morning one was missing . this was told to the king , and he ordered that a watch should be kept every night beneath the tree . the king had three sons , the eldest of whom he sent , as soon as night came on , into the garden , but when midnight came he could not keep himself from sleeping , and next morning again an apple was gone . the following night the second son had to keep watch , but it fared no better with him , as soon as twelve o'clock had struck he fell asleep , and in the morning an apple was gone . now it came to the turn of the third son to watch , and he was quite ready , but the king had not much trust in him , and thought that he would be of less use even than his brothers , but at last he let him go . the youth lay down beneath the tree , but kept awake , and did not let sleep master him . when it struck twelve , something rustled through the air , and in the moonlight he saw a bird coming whose feathers were all shining with gold . the bird alighted on the tree , and had just plucked off an apple , when the youth shot an arrow at him . the bird flew off , but the arrow had struck his plumage , and one of his golden feathers fell down . the youth picked it up , and the next morning took it to the king and told him what he had seen in the night . the king called his council together , and everyone declared that a feather like this was worth more than the whole kingdom . if the feather is so precious , declared the king , one alone will not do for me , i must and will have the whole bird . the eldest son set out , and trusting to his cleverness thought that he would easily find the golden bird . when he had gone some distance he saw a fox sitting at the edge of a wood so he cocked his gun and took aim at him . the fox cried , do not shoot me , and in return i will give you some good counsel . you are on the way to the golden bird , and this evening you will come to a village in which stand two inns opposite to one another . one of them is lighted up brightly , and all goes on merrily within , but do not go into it , go rather into the other , even though it looks like a bad one . how can such a silly beast give wise advice , thought the king's son , and he pulled the trigger . but he missed the fox , who stretched out his tail and ran quickly into the wood . so he pursued his way , and by evening came to the village where the two inns were , in one they were singing and dancing , the other had a poor , miserable look . i should be a fool , indeed , he thought , if i were to go into the shabby tavern , and pass by the good one . so he went into the cheerful one , lived there in riot and revel , and forgot the bird and his father , and all good counsels . when many months had passed , and the eldest son did not come back home , the second set out , wishing to find the golden bird . the fox met him as he had met the eldest , and gave him the good advice of which he took no heed . he came to the two inns , and his brother was standing at the window of the one from which came the music , and called out to him . he could not resist , but went inside and lived only for pleasure . again some time passed , and then the king's youngest son wanted to set off and try his luck , but his father would not allow it . it is of no use , said he , he will find the golden bird still less than his brothers , and if a mishap were to befall him he knows not how to help himself , he's not too bright at the best . but at last , as he had no peace , he let him go . again the fox was sitting outside the wood , and begged for his life , and offered his good advice . the youth was good-natured , and said , be easy , little fox , i will do you no harm . you shall not repent it , answered the fox , and that you may get on more quickly , get up behind on my tail . and scarcely had he seated himself when the fox began to run , and away he went over stock and stone till his hair whistled in the wind . when they came to the village the youth got off , he followed the good advice , and without looking round turned into the little inn , where he spent the night quietly . the next morning , as soon as he got into the open country , there sat the fox already , and said , i will tell you further what you have to do . go on quite straight , and at last you will come to a castle , in front of which a whole regiment of soldiers is lying , but do not trouble yourself about them , for they will all be asleep and snoring . go through the midst of them staight into the castle , and go through all the rooms , till at last you will come to a chamber where a golden bird is hanging in a wooden cage . close by , there stands an empty gold cage for show , but beware of taking the bird out of the common cage and putting it into the fine one , or it may go badly with you . with these words the fox again stretched out his tail , and the king's son seated himself upon it , and away he went over stock and stone till his hair whistled in the wind . when he came to the castle he found everything as the fox had said . the king's son went into the chamber where the golden bird was shut up in a wooden cage , whilst a golden one stood by , and the three golden apples lay about the room . but , thought he , it would be absurd if i were to leave the beautiful bird in the common and ugly cage , so he opened the door , laid hold of it , and put it into the golden cage . but at the same moment the bird uttered a shrill cry . the soldiers awoke , rushed in , and took him off to prison . the next morning he was taken before a court of justice , and as he confessed everything , was sentenced to death . the king , however , said that he would grant him his life on one condition - namely , if he brought him the golden horse which ran faster than the wind , and in that case he should receive , over and above , as a reward , the golden bird . the king's son set off , but he sighed and was sorrowful , for how was he to find the golden horse . but all at once he saw his old friend the fox sitting on the road . look you , said the fox , this has happened because you did not give heed to me . however , be of good courage . i will give you my help , and tell you how to get to the golden horse . you must go straight on , and you will come to a castle , where in the stable stands the horse . the grooms will be lying in front of the stable , but they will be asleep and snoring , and you can quietly lead out the golden horse . but of one thing you must take heed , put on him the common saddle of wood and leather , and not the golden one , which hangs close by , else it will go ill with you . then the fox stretched out his tail , the king's son seated himself upon it , and away he went over stock and stone until his hair whistled in the wind . everything happened just as the fox had said , the prince came to the stable in which the golden horse was standing , but just as he was going to put the common saddle upon him , he thought , such a beautiful beast will be shamed if i do not give him the good saddle which belongs to him by right . but scarcely had the golden saddle touched the horse than he began to neigh loudly . the grooms awoke , seized the youth , and threw him into prison . the next morning he was sentenced by the court to death , but the king promised to grant him his life , and the golden horse as well , if he could bring back the beautiful princess from the golden castle . with a heavy heart the youth set out , yet luckily for him he soon found the trusty fox . i ought only to leave you to your ill-luck , said the fox , but i pity you , and will help you once more out of your trouble . this road takes you straight to the golden castle , you will reach it by eventide , and at night when everything is quiet the beautiful princess goes to the bathing-house to bathe . when she enters it , run up to her and give her a kiss , then she will follow you , and you can take her away with you , only do not allow her to take leave of her parents first , or it will go ill with you . then the fox stretched out his tail , the king's son seated himself upon it , and away went the fox , over stock and stone , till his hair whistled in the wind . when he reached the golden castle it was just as the fox had said . he waited until midnight , when everything lay in deep sleep , and the beautiful princess was going to the bathing-house . then he sprang out and gave her a kiss . she said that she would like to go with him , but she asked him pitifully , and with tears , to allow her first to take leave of her parents . at first he withstood her prayer , but when she wept more and more , and fell at his feet , he at last gave in . but no sooner had the maiden reached the bedside of her father than he and all the rest in the castle awoke , and the youth was laid hold of and put into prison . the next morning the king said to him , your life is forfeited , and you can only find mercy if you take away the hill which stands in front of my windows , and prevents my seeing beyond it , and you must finish it all within eight days . if you do that you shall have my daughter as your reward . the king's son began , and dug and shoveled without stopping , but when after seven days he saw how little he had done , and how all his work was as good as nothing , he fell into great sorrow and gave up all hope . but on the evening of the seventh day the fox appeared and said , you do not deserve that i should take my trouble about you , but just go away and lie down to sleep , and i will do the work for you . the next morning when he awoke and looked out of the window the hill had gone . the youth ran , full of joy , to the king , and told him that the task was fulfilled , and whether he liked it or not , the king had to hold to his word and give him his daughter . so the two set forth together , and it was not long before the trusty fox came up with them . you have certainly got what is best , said he , but the golden horse also belongs to the maiden of the golden castle . how shall i get it , asked the youth . that i will tell you , answered the fox , first take the beautiful maiden to the king who sent you to the golden castle . there will be unheard-of rejoicing , they will gladly give you the golden horse , and will bring it out to you . mount it as soon as possible , and offer your hand to all in farewell , last of all to the beautiful maiden . and as soon as you have taken her hand swing her up on to the horse , and gallop away , and no one will be able to bring you back , for the horse runs faster than the wind . all was carried out successfully , and the king's son carried off the beautiful princess on the golden horse . the fox did not remain behind , and he said to the youth , now i will help you to get the golden bird . when you come near to the castle where the golden bird is to be found , let the maiden get down , and i will take her into my care . then ride with the golden horse into the castle-yard , there will be great rejoicing at the sight , and they will bring out the golden bird for you . as soon as you have the cage in your hand gallop back to us , and take the maiden away again . when the plan had succeeded , and the king's son was about to ride home with his treasures , the fox said , now you shall reward me for my help . what do you require for it , asked the youth . when you get into the wood yonder , shoot me dead , and chop off my head and feet . that would be fine gratitude , said the king's son . i cannot possibly do that for you . the fox said , if you will not do it i must leave you , but before i go away i will give you a piece of good advice . be careful about two things . buy no gallows'-flesh , and do not sit at the edge of any well . and then he ran into the wood . the youth thought , that is a wonderful beast , he has strange whims , who on earth would want to buy gallows'-flesh . as for the desire to sit at the edge of a well it has never yet occurred to me . he rode on with the beautiful maiden , and his road took him again through the village in which his two brothers had remained . there was a great stir and noise , and , when he asked what was going on , he was told that two men were going to be hanged . as he came nearer to the place he saw that they were his brothers , who had been playing all kinds of wicked pranks , and had squandered all their wealth . he inquired whether they could not be set free . if you will pay for them , answered the people , but why should you waste your money on wicked men , and buy them free . he did not think twice about it , but paid for them , and when they were set free they all went on their way together . they came to the wood where the fox had first met them , and as it was a hot day , but cool and pleasant within the wood , the two brothers said , let us rest a little by the well , and eat and drink . he agreed , and whilst they were talking he forgot himself , and sat down upon the edge of the well without thinking of any evil . but the two brothers threw him backwards into the well , took the maiden , the horse , and the bird , and went home to their father . here we bring you not only the golden bird , said they , we have won the golden horse also , and the maiden from the golden castle . then was there great joy , but the horse would not eat , the bird would not sing , and the maiden sat and wept . but the youngest brother was not dead . by good fortune the well was dry , and he fell upon soft moss without being hurt , but he could not get out again . even in this strait the faithful fox did not leave him , it came and leapt down to him , and upbraided him for having forgotten its advice . but yet i cannot give up , he said , i will help you up again into daylight . he bade him grasp his tail and keep tight hold of it , and then he pulled him up . you are not out of all danger yet , said the fox . your brothers were not sure of your death , and have surrounded the wood with watchers , who are to kill you if you let yourself be seen . but a poor man was sitting upon the road , with whom the youth changed clothes , and in this way he got to the king's palace . no one knew him , but the bird began to sing , the horse began to eat , and the beautiful maiden left off weeping . the king , astonished , asked , what does this mean . then the maiden said , i do not know , but i have been so sorrowful and now i am so happy . i feel as if my true bridegroom had come . she told him all that had happened , although the other brothers had threatened her with death if she were to betray anything . the king commanded that all people who were in his castle should be brought before him , and amongst them came the youth in his ragged clothes , but the maiden knew him at once and fell upon his neck . the wicked brothers were seized and put to death , but he was married to the beautiful maiden and declared heir to the king . but what happened to the poor fox . long afterwards the king's son was once again walking in the wood , when the fox met him and said , you have everything now that you can wish for , but there is never an end to my misery , and yet it is in your power to free me , and again he asked him with tears to shoot him dead and chop off his head and feet . so he did it , and scarcely was it done when the fox was changed into a man , and was no other than the brother of the beautiful princess , who at last was freed from the magic charm which had been laid upon him . and now they had all the happiness they wanted as long as they lived .