there was once a woman and her daughter who lived in a pretty garden with cabbages . and a little hare came into it , and during the winter time ate all the cabbages . then says the mother to the daughter , go into the garden , and chase the hare away . the girl says to the little hare , sh-sh , hare , you will be eating all our cabbages . says the hare , come , maiden , and seat yourself on my little hare's tail , and come with me into my little hare's hut . the girl will not do it . next day the hare comes again and eats the cabbages , then says the mother to the daughter , go into the garden , and drive the hare away . the girl says to the hare , sh-sh , little hare , you will be eating all the cabbages . the little hare says , maiden , seat yourself on my little hare's tail , and come with me into my little hare's hut . the maiden refuses . the third day the hare comes again , and eats the cabbages . on this the mother says to the daughter , go into the garden , and hunt the hare away . says the maiden , sh-sh , little hare , you will be eating all our cabbages . says the little hare , come , maiden , seat yourself on my little hare's tail , and come with me into my little hare's hut . the girl seats herself on the little hare's tail , and then the hare takes her far away to his little hut , and says , now cook green cabbage and millet-seed , and i will invite the wedding-guests . then all the wedding-guests assembled . who were the wedding-guests ? that i can tell you as another told it to me . they were all hares , and the crow was there as parson to marry the bride and bridegroom , and the fox as clerk , and the altar was under the rainbow . the girl , however , was sad , for she was all alone . the little hare comes and says , open the doors , open the doors , the wedding-guests are merry . the bride says nothing , but weeps . the little hare goes away . the little hare comes back and says , take off the lid , take off the lid , the wedding-guests are hungry . the bride again says nothing , and weeps . the little hare goes away . the little hare comes back and says , take off the lid , take off the lid , the wedding-guests are waiting . then the bride says nothing , and the hare goes away , but she dresses a straw-doll in her clothes , and gives her a spoon to stir with , and sets her by the pan with the millet-seed , and goes back to her mother . the little hare comes once more and says , take off the lid , take off the lid , and gets up , and strikes the doll on the head so that her cap falls off . then the little hare sees that it is not his bride , and goes away and is sorrowful .