there was once upon a time a woman who was a real witch and had two daughters , one ugly and wicked , and this one she loved because she was her own daughter , and one beautiful and good , and this one she hated , because she was her step-daughter . the step-daughter once had a pretty apron , which the other fancied so much that she became envious , and told her mother that she must and would have that apron . be quiet , my child , said the old woman , and you shall have it . your step-sister has long deserved death , to-night when she is asleep i will come and cut her head off . only be careful that you are at the far-side of the bed , and push her well to the front . it would have been all over with the poor girl if she had not just then been standing in a corner , and heard everything . all day long she dared not go out of doors , and when bed-time had come , the witch's daughter got into bed first , so as to lie at the far side , but when she was asleep , the other pushed her gently to the front , and took for herself the place at the back , close by the wall . in the night , the old woman came creeping in , she held an axe in her right hand , and felt with her left to see if anyone were lying at the outside , and then she grasped the axe with both hands , and cut her own child's head off . when she had gone away , the girl got up and went to her sweetheart , who was called roland , and knocked at his door . when he came out , she said to him , listen , dearest roland , we must fly in all haste . my step-mother wanted to kill me , but has struck her own child . when daylight comes , and she sees what she has done , we shall be lost . but , said roland , i counsel you first to take away her magic wand , or we cannot escape if she pursues us . the maiden fetched the magic wand , and she took the dead girl's head and dropped three drops of blood on the ground , one in front of the bed , one in the kitchen , and one on the stairs . then she hurried away with her lover . when the old witch got up next morning , she called her daughter , and wanted to give her the apron , but she did not come . then the witch cried , where are you . here , on the stairs , i am sweeping , answered the first drop of blood . the old woman went out , but saw no one on the stairs , and cried again , where are you . here in the kitchen , i am warming myself , cried the second drop of blood . she went into the kitchen , but found no one . then she cried again , where are you . ah , here in the bed , i am sleeping , cried the third drop of blood . she went into the room to the bed . what did she see there . her own child , whose head she had cut off , bathed in her blood . the witch fell into a passion , sprang to the window , and as she could look forth quite far into the world , she perceived her step-daughter hurrying away with her sweetheart roland . that shall not help you , cried she , even if you have got a long way off , you shall still not escape me . she put on her many league boots , in which she covered an hour's walk at every step , and it was not long before she overtook them . the girl , however , when she saw the old woman striding towards her , changed , with her magic wand , her sweetheart roland into a lake , and herself into a duck swimming in the middle of it . the witch placed herself on the shore , threw bread-crumbs in , and went to endless trouble to entice the duck , but the duck did not let herself be enticed , and the old woman had to go home at night as she had come . at this the girl and her sweetheart roland resumed their natural shapes again , and they walked on the whole night until daybreak . then the maiden changed herself into a beautiful flower which stood in the midst of a briar hedge , and her sweetheart roland into a fiddler . it was not long before the witch came striding up towards them , and said to the musician , dear musician , may i pluck that beautiful flower for myself . oh , yes , he replied , i will play to you while you do it . as she was hastily creeping into the hedge and was just going to pluck the flower , knowing perfectly well who the flower was , he began to play , and whether she would or not , she was forced to dance , for it was a magical dance . the faster he played , the more violent springs was she forced to make , and the thorns tore her clothes from her body , and pricked her and wounded her till she bled , and as he did not stop , she had to dance till she lay dead on the ground . as they were now set free , roland said , now i will go to my father and arrange for the wedding . then in the meantime i will stay here and wait for you , said the girl , and that no one may recognize me , i will change myself into a red stone land-mark . then roland went away , and the girl stood like a red land-mark in the field and waited for her beloved . but when roland got home , he fell into the snares of another , who so fascinated him that he forgot the maiden . the poor girl remained there a long time , but at length , as he did not return at all , she was sad , and changed herself into a flower , and thought , someone will surely come this way , and trample me down . it befell , however , that a shepherd kept his sheep in the field , and saw the flower , and as it was so pretty , plucked it , took it with him , and laid it away in his chest . from that time forth , strange things happened in the shepherd's house . when he arose in the morning all the work was already done , the room was swept , the table and benches cleaned , the fire on the hearth was lighted , and the water was fetched , and at noon , when he came home , the table was laid , and a good dinner served . he could not conceive how this came to pass , for he never saw a human being in his house , and no one could have concealed himself in it . he was certainly pleased with this good attendance , but still at last he was so afraid that he went to a wise woman and asked for her advice . the wise woman said , there is some enchantment behind it , listen very early some morning if anything is moving in the room , and if you see anything , no matter what it is , throw a white cloth over it , and then the magic will be stopped . the shepherd did as she bade him , and next morning just as day dawned , he saw the chest open , and the flower come out . swiftly he sprang towards it , and threw a white cloth over it . instantly the transformation came to an end , and a beautiful girl stood before him , who admitted to him that she had been the flower , and that up to this time she had attended to his housekeeping . she told him her story , and as she pleased him he asked her if she would marry him , but she answered , no , for she wanted to remain faithful to her sweetheart roland , although he had deserted her . nevertheless , she promised not to go away , but to continue keeping house for the shepherd . and now the time drew near when roland's wedding was to be celebrated , and then , according to an old custom in the country , it was announced that all the girls were to be present at it , and sing in honor of the bridal pair . when the faithful maiden heard of this , she grew so sad that she thought her heart would break , and she would not go thither , but the other girls came and took her . when it came to her turn to sing , she stepped back , until at last she was the only one left , and then she could not refuse . but when she began her song , and it reached roland's ears , he sprang up and cried , i know the voice , that is the true bride , i will have no other . everything he had forgotten , and which had vanished from his mind , had suddenly come home again to his heart . then the faithful maiden held her wedding with her sweetheart roland , and grief came to an end and joy began .