a poor man had twelve children and was forced to work night and day to give them even bread . when therefore the thirteenth came into the world , he knew not what to do in his trouble , but ran out into the great highway , and resolved to ask the first person whom he met to be godfather . the first to meet him was the good god who already knew what filled his heart , and said to him , poor man , i pity you . i will hold your child at its christening , and will take charge of it and make it happy on earth . the man said , who are you . i am god . then i do not desire to have you for a godfather , said the man , you give to the rich , and leave the poor to hunger . thus spoke the man , for he did not know how wisely god apportions riches and poverty . he turned therefore away from the lord , and went farther . then the devil came to him and said , what do you seek . if you will take me as a godfather for your child , i will give him gold in plenty and all the joys of the world as well . the man asked , who are you . i am the devil . then i do not desire to have you for godfather , said the man , you deceive men and lead them astray . he went onwards , and then came death striding up to him with withered legs , and said , take me as godfather . the man asked , who are you . i am death , and i make all equal . then said the man , you are the right one , you take the rich as well as the poor , without distinction , you shall be godfather . death answered , i will make your child rich and famous , for he who has me for a friend can lack nothing . the man said , next sunday is the christening , be there at the right time . death appeared as he had promised , and stood godfather quite in the usual way . when the boy had grown up , his godfather one day appeared and bade him go with him . he led him forth into a forest , and showed him a herb which grew there , and said , now you shall receive your godfather's present . i make you a celebrated physician . when you are called to a patient , i will always appear to you . if i stand by the head of the sick man , you may say with confidence that you will make him well again , and if you give him of this herb he will recover , but if i stand by the patient's feet , he is mine , and you must say that all remedies are in vain , and that no physician in the world could save him . but beware of using the herb against my will , or it might fare ill with you . it was not long before the youth was the most famous physician in the whole world . he had only to look at the patient and he knew his condition at once , whether he would recover , or must needs die . so they said of him , and from far and wide people came to him , sent for him when they had anyone ill , and gave him so much money that he soon became a rich man . now it so befell that the king became ill , and the physician was summoned , and was to say if recovery were possible . but when he came to the bed , death was standing by the feet of the sick man , and the herb did not grow which could save him . if i could but cheat death for once , thought the physician , he is sure to take it ill if i do but , as i am his godson , he will shut one eye , i will risk it . he therefore took up the sick man , and laid him the other way , so that now death was standing by his head . then he gave the king some of the herbs , and he recovered and grew healthy again . but death came to the physician , looking very black and angry , threatened him with his finger , and said , you have betrayed me , this time i will pardon it , as you are my godson , but if you venture it again , it will cost you your neck , for i will take you yourself away with me . soon afterwards the king's daughter fell into a severe illness . she was his only child , and he wept day and night , so that he began to lose the sight of his eyes , and he caused it to be made known that whosoever rescued her from death should be her husband and inherit the crown . when the physician came to the sick girl's bed , he saw death by her feet . he ought to have remembered the warning given by his godfather , but he was so infatuated by the great beauty of the king's daughter , and the happiness of becoming her husband , that he flung all thought to the winds . he did not see that death was casting angry glances on him , that he was raising his hand in the air , and threatening him with his withered fist . he raised up the sick girl , and placed her head where her feet had lain . then he gave her some of the herb , and instantly her cheeks flushed red , and life stirred afresh in her . when death saw that for a second time his own property had been misused , he walked up to the physician with long strides , and said , all is over with you , and now the lot falls on you , and seized him so firmly with his ice-cold hand , that he could not resist , and led him into a cave below the earth . there he saw how thousands and thousands of candles were burning in countless rows , some large , some medium-sized , others small . every instant some were extinguished , and others again burnt up , so that the flames seemed to leap hither and thither in perpetual change . see , said death , these are the lights of men's lives . the large ones belong to children , the medium-sized ones to married people in their prime , the little ones belong to old people , but children and young folks likewise have often only a tiny candle . show me the light of my life , said the physician , and he thought that it would be still very tall . death pointed to a little end which was just threatening to go out , and said , behold , it is there . ah , dear godfather , said the horrified physician , light a new one for me , do it for love of me , that i may enjoy my life , be king , and the husband of the king's beautiful daughter . i cannot , answered death , one must go out before a new one is lighted . then place the old one on a new one , that will go on burning at once when the old one has come to an end , pleaded the physician . death behaved as if he were going to fulfill his wish , and took hold of a tall new candle , but as he desired to revenge himself , he purposely made a mistake in fixing it , and the little piece fell down and was extinguished . immediately the physician fell on the ground , and now he himself was in the hands of death .