once upon a time lived a man and a woman who so long as they were rich had no children , but when they were poor they got a little boy . they could find no godfather for him , so the man said he would just go to another village to see if he could get one there . on his way he met a poor man , who asked him where he was going . he said he was going to see if he could get a godfather , because he was so poor that no one would stand as godfather for him . " oh , " said the poor man , " you are poor , and i am poor . i will be godfather for you , but i am so badly off i can give the child nothing . go home and tell the midwife that she is to come to the church with the child . " when they all got to the church together , the beggar was already there , and he gave the child the name of ferdinand the faithful . when he was going out of the church , the beggar said , " now go home , i can give you nothing , and you likewise ought to give me nothing . " but he gave a key to the midwife , and told her when she got home she was to give it to the father , who was to take care of it until the child was fourteen years old , and then he was to go on the heath where there was a castle which the key would fit , and that all which was therein should belong to him . now when the child was seven years old and had grown very big , he once went to play with some other boys , and each of them boasted that he had got more from his godfather than the other , but the child could say nothing , and was vexed , and went home and said to his father , " did i get nothing at all , then , from my godfather ? " " oh , yes , " said the father , " you have a key . if there is a castle standing on the heath , just go to it and open it . " then the boy went thither , but no castle was to be seen , or heard of . after seven years more , when he was fourteen years old , he again went thither , and there stood the castle . when he had opened it , there was nothing within but a horse , - a white one . then the boy was so full of joy because he had a horse , that he mounted on it and galloped back to his father . " now i have a white horse , and i will travel , " said he . so he set out , and as he was on his way , a pen was lying on the road . at first he thought he would pick it up , but then again he thought to himself , " you should leave it lying there , you will easily find a pen where you are going , if you have need of one . " as he was thus riding away , a voice called after him , " ferdinand the faithful , take it with you . " he looked around , but saw no one , so he went back again and picked it up . when he had ridden a little way farther , he passed by a lake , and a fish was lying on the bank , gasping and panting for breath , so he said , " wait , my dear fish , i will help you to get into the water , " and he took hold of it by the tail , and threw it into the lake . then the fish put its head out of the water and said , " as you have helped me out of the mud i will give you a flute . when you are in any need , play on it , and then i will help you , and if ever you let anything fall in the water , just play and i will reach it out to you . " then he rode away , and there came to him a man who asked him where he was going . " oh , to the next place . " " what is your name ? " " ferdinand the faithful . " " so , then we have almost the same name , i am called ferdinand the unfaithful . " and they both set out to the inn in the nearest place . now it was unfortunate that ferdinand the unfaithful knew everything that the other had ever thought and everything he was about to do . he knew it by means of all kinds of wicked arts . there was in the inn an honest girl , who had a bright face and behaved very prettily . she fell in love with ferdinand the faithful because he was a handsome man , and she asked him whither he was going . " oh , i am just traveling round about , " said he . then she said he ought to stay there , for the king of that country wanted an attendant or an outrider , and he ought to enter his service . he answered he could not very well go to any one like that and offer himself . then said the maiden , " oh , but i will soon do that for you . " and so she went straight to the king , and told him that she knew of an excellent servant for him . he was well pleased with that , and had ferdinand the faithful brought to him , and wanted to make him his servant . he , however , liked better to be an outrider , for where his horse was , there he also wanted to be , so the king made him an outrider . when ferdinand the unfaithful learnt that , he said to the girl , " what ? do you help him and not me ? " " oh , " said the girl , " i will help you too . " she thought , i must keep friends with that man , for he is not to be trusted . she went to the king , and offered him as a servant , and the king was willing . now when the king met his lords in the morning , he always lamented and said , " oh , if i only had my love with me . " ferdinand the unfaithful , however , was always hostile to ferdinand the faithful . so once , when the king was complaining thus , he said , " you have the outrider , send him away to get her , and if he does not do it , his head must be struck off . " then the king sent for ferdinand the faithful , and told him that there was , in this place or in that place , a girl he loved , and that he was to bring her to him , and if he did not do it he should die . ferdinand the faithful went into the stable to his white horse , and complained and lamented , " oh , what an unhappy man am i . " then someone behind him cried , " ferdinand the faithful , why do you weep ? " he looked round but saw no one , and went on lamenting . " oh , my dear little white horse , now must i leave you , now i must die . " then someone cried once more , " ferdinand the faithful , why do you weep ? " then for the first time he was aware that it was his little white horse who was putting that question . " do you speak , my little white horse ? can you do that ? " and again , he said , " i am to go to this place and to that , and am to bring the bride . can you tell me how i am to set about it ? " then answered the white horse , " go to the king , and say if he will give you what you must have , you will get her for him . if he will give you a ship full of meat , and a ship full of bread , it will succeed . great giants dwell on the lake , and if you take no meat with you for them , they will tear you to pieces , and there are the large birds which would pluck the eyes out of your head if you had no bread for them . then the king made all the butchers in the land kill , and all the bakers bake , that the ships might be filled . " when they were full , the little white horse said to ferdinand the faithful , " now mount me , and go with me into the ship , and then when the giants come , say - peace , peace , my dear little giants , i have had thought of ye , something i have brought for ye . and when the birds come , you shall again say - peace , peace , my dear little birds , i have had thought of ye , something i have brought for ye . then they will do nothing to you , and when you come to the castle , the giants will help you . then go up to the castle , and take a couple of giants with you . there the princess lies sleeping . you must , however , not awaken her , but the giants must lift her up , and carry her in her bed to the ship . " and now everything took place as the little white horse had said , and ferdinand the faithful gave the giants and the birds what he had brought with him for them , and that made the giants willing , and they carried the princess in her bed to the king . and when she came to the king , she said she could not live , she must have her writings , they had been left in her castle . then by the instigation of ferdinand the unfaithful , ferdinand the faithful was called , and the king told him he must fetch the writings from the castle , or he should die . then he went once more into the stable , and bemoaned himself and said , " oh , my dear little white horse , now i am to go away again , how am i to do it ? " then the little white horse said he was just to load the ships full again . so it happened again as it had happened before , and the giants and the birds were satisfied , and made gentle by the meat . when they came to the castle , the white horse told ferdinand the faithful that he must go in , and that on the table in the princess's bed-room lay the writings . and ferdinand the faithful went in , and fetched them . when they were on the lake , he let his pen fall into the water . then said the white horse , " now i cannot help you at all . " but he remembered his flute , and began to play on it , and the fish came with the pen in its mouth , and gave it to him . so he took the writings to the castle , where the wedding was celebrated . the queen , however , did not love the king because he had no nose , but she would have much liked to love ferdinand the faithful . once , therefore , when all the lords of the court were together , the queen said she could do feats of magic , that she could cut off anyone's head and put it on again , and that one of them ought just to try it . but none of them would be the first , so ferdinand the faithful , again at the instigation of ferdinand the unfaithful , undertook it and she hewed off his head , and put it on again for him , and it healed together directly , so that it looked as if he had a red thread round his throat . then the king said to her , " my child , and where have you learnt that ? " " oh , " she said , " i understand the art . shall i just try it on you also . " " oh , yes , " said he . so she cut off his head , but did not put it on again , and pretended that she could not get it on , and that it would not stay . then the king was buried , but she married ferdinand the faithful . he , however , always rode on his white horse , and once when he was seated on it , it told him that he was to go on to the heath which he knew , and gallop three times round it . and when he had done that , the white horse stood up on its hind legs , and was changed into a king's son .