there was once a girl whose father and mother died while she was still a little child . all alone , in a small house at the end of the village , dwelt her godmother , who supported herself by spinning , weaving , and sewing . the old woman took the forlorn child to live with her , kept her to her work , and educated her in all that is good . when the girl was fifteen years old , the old woman became ill , called the child to her bedside , and said , dear daughter , i feel my end drawing near . i leave you the little house , which will protect you from wind and weather , and my spindle , shuttle , and needle , with which you can earn your bread . then she laid her hands on the girl's head , blessed her , and said , only preserve the love of god in your heart , and all will go well with you . thereupon she closed her eyes , and when she was laid in the earth , the maiden followed the coffin , weeping bitterly , and paid her the last mark of respect . and now the maiden lived quite alone in the little house , and was industrious , and spun , wove , and sewed , and the blessing of the good old woman was on all that she did . it seemed as if the flax in the room increased of its own accord , and whenever she wove a piece of cloth or carpet , or had made a shirt , she at once found a buyer who paid her amply for it , so that she was in want of nothing , and even had something to share with others . about this time , the son of the king was traveling about the country looking for a bride . he was not to choose a poor one , and did not want to have a rich one . so he said , she shall be my wife who is the poorest , and at the same time the richest . when he came to the village where the maiden dwelt , he inquired , as he did wherever he went , who was the richest and also the poorest girl in the place . they first named the richest . the poorest , they said , was the girl who lived in the small house quite at the end of the village . the rich girl was sitting in all her splendor before the door of her house , and when the prince approached her , she got up , went to meet him , and made him a low curtsy . he looked at her , said nothing , and rode on . when he came to the house of the poor girl , she was not standing at the door , but sitting in her little room . he stopped his horse , and saw through the window , on which the bright sun was shining , the girl sitting at her spinning-wheel , busily spinning . she looked up , and when she saw that the prince was looking in , she blushed all over her face , let her eyes fall , and went on spinning . i do not know whether , just at that moment , the thread was quite even , but she went on spinning until the king's son had ridden away again . then she went to the window , opened it , and said , it is so warm in this room , and she looked after him as long as she could distinguish the white feathers in his hat . then she sat down to work again in her room and went on with her spinning , and a saying which the old woman had often repeated when she was sitting at her work , came into her mind , and she sang these words to herself , spindle , my spindle , haste , haste thee away , and here to my house bring the wooer , i pray . and what do you think happened . the spindle sprang out of her hand in an instant , and out of the door , and when , in her astonishment , she got up and looked after it , she saw that it was dancing out merrily into the open country , and drawing a shining gold thread after it . before long , it had entirely vanished from her sight . as she had now no spindle , the girl took the weaver's shuttle in her hand , sat down to her loom , and began to weave . the spindle , however , danced continually onwards , and just as the thread came to an end , reached the prince . what do i see , he cried , the spindle certainly wants to show me the way , turned his horse about , and rode back with the golden thread . the girl however , was sitting at her work singing , shuttle , my shuttle , weave well this day , and guide the wooer to me , i pray . immediately the shuttle sprang out of her hand and out by the door . before the threshold , however , it began to weave a carpet which was more beautiful than the eyes of man had ever yet beheld . lilies and roses blossomed on both sides of it , and on a golden ground in the center green branches ascended , under which bounded hares and rabbits , stags and deer stretched their heads in between them , brightly-colored birds were sitting in the branches above , they lacked nothing but the gift of song . the shuttle leapt hither and thither , and everything seemed to grow of its own accord . as the shuttle had run away , the girl sat down to sew . she held the needle in her hand and sang , needle , my needle , sharp-pointed and fine , prepare for the wooer this house of mine . then the needle leapt out of her fingers , and flew everywhere about the room as quick as lightning . it was just as if invisible spirits were working , it covered tables and benches with green cloth in an instant , and the chairs with velvet , and hung the windows with silken curtains . hardly had the needle put in the last stitch than the maiden saw through the window the white feathers of the prince , whom the spindle had brought thither by the golden thread . he alighted , stepped over the carpet into the house , and when he entered the room , there stood the maiden in her poor garments , but she shone out from within them like a rose surrounded by leaves . you are the poorest and also the richest , said he to her . come with me , you shall be my bride . she did not speak , but she gave him her hand . then he gave her a kiss , led her forth , lifted her on to his horse , and took her to the royal castle , where the wedding was solemnized with great rejoicings . the spindle , shuttle , and needle were preserved in the treasure-chamber , and held in great honor .