there was once a poor woodcutter who toiled from early morning till late at night . when at last he had laid by some money he said to his boy , " you are my only child , i will spend the money which i have earned with the sweat of my brow on your education , if you learn some honest trade you can support me in my old age , when my limbs have grown stiff and i am obliged to stay at home . " then the boy went to a high school and learned diligently so that his masters praised him , and he remained there a long time . when he had worked through two classes , but was still not yet perfect in everything , the little pittance which the father had earned was all spent , and the boy was obliged to return home to him . " ah , " said the father , sorrowfully , " i can give you no more , and in these hard times i cannot earn a farthing more than will suffice for our daily bread . " " dear father , " answered the son , " don't trouble yourself about it , if it is god's will , it will turn to my advantage . i shall soon accustom myself to it . " when the father wanted to go into the forest to earn money by helping to chop and stack wood , the son said , " i will go with you and help you . " " nay , my son , " said the father , " that would be hard for you . you are not accustomed to rough work , and will not be able to bear it . besides , i have only one axe and no money left wherewith to buy another . " " just go to the neighbor , " answered the son , " he will lend you his axe until i have earned one for myself . " the father then borrowed an axe of the neighbor , and next morning at break of day they went out into the forest together . the son helped his father and was quite merry and brisk about it . but when the sun was right over their heads , the father said , " we will rest , and have our dinner , and then we shall work twice as well . " the son took his bread in his hands , and said , " just you rest , father , i am not tired , i will walk up and down a little in the forest , and look for birds' nests . " " oh , you fool , " said the father , " why should you want to run about there ? afterwards you will be tired , and no longer able to raise your arm . stay here , and sit down beside me . " the son , however , went into the forest , ate his bread , was very merry and peered in among the green branches to see if he could discover a bird's nest anywhere . so he walked to and fro until at last he came to a great dangerous-looking oak , which certainly was already many hundred years old , and which five men could not have spanned . he stood still and looked at it , and thought , many a bird must have built its nest in that . then all at once it seemed to him that he heard a voice . he listened and became aware that someone was crying in a very smothered voice , " let me out , let me out . " he looked around , but could discover nothing . then he fancied that the voice came out of the ground . so he cried , " where are you ? " the voice answered , " i am down here amongst the roots of the oak-tree . let me out . let me out . " the schoolboy began to loosen the earth under the tree , and search among the roots , until at last he found a glass bottle in a little hollow . he lifted it up and held it against the light , and then saw a creature shaped like a frog , springing up and down in it . " let me out . let me out , " it cried anew , and the boy thinking no evil , drew the cork out of the bottle . immediately a spirit ascended from it , and began to grow , and grew so fast that in a very few moments he stood before the boy , a terrible fellow as big as half the tree . " do you know , " he cried in an awful voice , " what your reward is for having let me out ? " " no , " replied the boy fearlessly , " how should i know that ? " " then i will tell you , " cried the spirit , " i must strangle you for it . " " you should have told me that sooner , " said the boy , " for i should then have left you shut up , but my head shall stand fast for all you can do , more persons than one must be consulted about that . " " more persons here , more persons there , " said the spirit . " you shall have the reward you have earned . do you think that i was shut up there for such a long time as a favor . no , it was a punishment for me . i am the mighty mercurius . whoso releases me , him must i strangle . " " slowly , " answered the boy , " not so fast . i must first know that you really were shut up in that little bottle , and that you are the right spirit . if , indeed , you can get in again , i will believe and then you may do as you will with me . " the spirit said haughtily , " that is a very trifling feat . " drew himself together , and made himself as small and slender as he had been at first , so that he crept through the same opening , and right through the neck of the bottle in again . scarcely was he within than the boy thrust the cork he had drawn back into the bottle , and threw it among the roots of the oak into its old place , and the spirit was deceived . and now the schoolboy was about to return to his father , but the spirit cried very piteously , " ah , do let me out , ah , do let me out . " " no , " answered the boy , " not a second time . he who has once tried to take my life shall not be set free by me , now that i have caught him again . " " if you will set me free , " said the spirit , " i will give you so much that you will have plenty all the days of your life . " " no , " answered the boy , " you would cheat me as you did the first time . " " you are spurning you own good luck , " said the spirit , " i will do you no harm but will reward you richly . " the boy thought , " i will venture it , perhaps he will keep his word , and anyhow he shall not get the better of me . " then he took out the cork , and the spirit rose up from the bottle as he had done before , stretched himself out and became as big as a giant . " now you shall have your reward , " said he , and handed the boy a little rag just like stiking-plaster , and said , " if you spread one end of this over a wound it will heal , and if you rub steel or iron with the other end it will be changed into silver . " " i must just try that , " said the boy , and went to a tree , tore off the bark with his axe , and rubbed it with one end of the plaster . it immediately closed together and was healed . " now , it is all right , " he said to the spirit , " and we can part . " the spirit thanked him for his release , and the boy thanked the spirit for his present , and went back to his father . " where have you been racing about ? " said the father . " why have you forgotten your work ? i always said that you would never come to anything . " " be easy , father , i will make it up . " " make it up indeed , " said the father angrily , " that's no use . " " take care , father , i will soon hew that tree there , so that it will split . " then he took his plaster , rubbed the axe with it , and dealt a mighty blow , but as the iron had changed into silver , the edge bent . " hi , father , just look what a bad axe you've given me , it has become quite crooked . " the father was shocked and said , " ah , what have you done ! now i shall have to pay for that , and have not the wherewithal , and that is all the good i have got by your work . " " don't get angry , " said the son , " i will soon pay for the axe . " " oh , you blockhead , " cried the father , " wherewith will you pay for it ? you have nothing but what i give you . these are students' tricks that are sticking in your head , you have no idea of woodcutting . " after a while the boy said , " father , i can really work no more , we had better take a holiday . " " eh , what , " answered he , " do you think i will sit with my hands lying in my lap like you . i must go on working , but you may take yourself off home . " " father , i am here in this wood for the first time , i don't know my way alone . do go with me . " as his anger had now abated , the father at last let himself be persuaded and went home with him . then he said to the son , " go and sell your damaged axe , and see what you can get for it , and i must earn the difference , in order to pay the neighbor . " the son took the axe , and carried it into town to a goldsmith , who tested it , laid it in the scales , and said , " it is worth four hundred talers , i have not so much as that by me . " the son said , " give me what thou have , i will lend you the rest . " the goldsmith gave him three hundred talers , and remained a hundred in his debt . the son thereupon went home and said , " father , i have got the money , go and ask the neighbor what he wants for the axe . " " i know that already , " answered the old man , " one taler , six groschen . " " then give him him two talers , twelve groschen , that is double and enough . see , i have money in plenty . " and he gave the father a hundred talers , and said , " you shall never know want , live as comfortably as you like . " " good heavens , " said the father , " how have you come by these riches ? " the boy then told how all had come to pass , and how he , trusting in his luck , had made such a packet . but with the money that was left , he went back to the high school and went on learning more , and as he could heal all wounds with his plaster , he became the most famous doctor in the whole world .