there was once upon a time a hermit who lived in a forest at the foot of a mountain , and passed his time in prayer and good works , and every evening he carried , to the glory of god , two pails of water up the mountain . many a beast drank of it , and many a plant was refreshed by it , for on the heights above , a strong wind blew continually , which dried the air and the ground , and the wild birds which dread mankind wheel about there , and with their sharp eyes search for a drink . and because the hermit was so pious , an angel of god , visible to his eyes , went up with him , counted his steps , and when the work was completed , brought him his food , even as the prophet of old was by god's command fed by the raven . when the hermit in his piety had already reached a great age , it happened that he once saw from afar a poor sinner being taken to the gallows . he said carelessly to himself , there , that one is getting his deserts . in the evening , when he was carrying the water up the mountain , the angel who usually accompanied him did not appear , and also brought him no food . then he was terrified , and searched his heart , and tried to think how he could have sinned , as god was so angry , but he did not discover it . then he neither ate nor drank , threw himself down on the ground , and prayed day and night . and as he was one day thus bitterly weeping in the forest , he heard a little bird singing beautifully and delightfully , and then he was still more troubled and said , how joyously you sing , the lord is not angry with you . ah , if you could but tell me how i can have offended him , that i might do penance , and then my heart also would be glad again . then the bird began to speak and said , you have done injustice , in that you have condemned a poor sinner who was being led to the gallows , and for that the lord is angry with you . he alone sits in judgement . however , if you will do penance and repent your sins , he will forgive you . then the angel stood beside him with a dry branch in his hand and said , you shall carry this dry branch until three green twigs sprout out of it , but at night when you will sleep , you shall lay it under your head . you shall beg your bread from door to door , and not tarry more than one night in the same house . that is the penance which the lord lays on you . then the hermit took the piece of wood , and went back into the world , which he had not seen for so long . he ate and drank nothing but what was given him at the doors . many petitions , however , were not listened to , and many doors remained shut to him , so that he often did not get a crumb of bread . once when he had gone from door to door from morning till night , and no one had given him anything , and no one would shelter him for the night , he went forth into a forest , and at last found a cave which someone had made , and an old woman was sitting in it . then said he , good woman , keep me with you in your house for this night . but she said , no , i dare not , even if i wished , i have three sons who are wicked and wild , if they come home from their robbing expedition , and find you , they would kill us both . the hermit said , let me stay , they will do no injury either to you or to me . and the old woman was compassionate , and let herself be persuaded . then the man lay down beneath the stairs , and put the bit of wood under his head . when the old woman saw him do that , she asked the reason of it , on which he told her that he carried the bit of wood about with him for a penance , and used it at night for a pillow , and that he had offended the lord , because , when he had seen a poor sinner on the way to the gallows , he had said he was getting his deserts . then the woman began to weep and cried , if the lord punishes one single word , how will it fare with my sons when they appear before him in judgment . at midnight the robbers came home and blustered and stormed . they made a fire , and when it had lighted up the cave and they saw a man lying under the stairs , they fell in a rage and cried to their mother , who is the man . have we not forbidden anyone whomsoever to be taken in . then said the mother , let him alone , it is a poor sinner who is expiating his crime . the robbers asked , what has he done . old man , cried they , tell us your sins . the old man raised himself and told them how he , by one single word , had so sinned that god was angry with him , and how he was now expiating this crime . the robbers were so powerfully touched in their hearts by this story , that they were shocked with their life up to this time , reflected , and began with hearty repentance to do penance for it . the hermit , after he had converted the three sinners , lay down to sleep again under the stairs . in the morning , however , they found him dead , and out of the dry wood on which his head lay , three green twigs had grown up on high . thus the lord had once more received him into his favor .