once upon a time there was a man who did nothing but gamble , and for that reason people never called him anything but gambling hansel , and as he never ceased to gamble , he played away his house and all that he had . now the very day before his creditors were to take his house from him , came the lord and st . peter , and asked him to give them shelter for the night . then gambling hansel said , for my part , you may stay the night , but i cannot give you a bed or anything to eat . so the lord said he was just to take them in , and they themselves would buy something to eat , to which gambling hansel made no objection . thereupon st . peter gave him three groschen , and said he was to go to the baker's and fetch some bread . so gambling hansel went , but when he reached the house where the other gambling vagabonds were gathered together , they , although they had won all that he had , greeted him clamorously , and said , hansel , do come in . oh , said he , do you want to win three groschen too . on this they would not let him go . so he went in , and played away the three groschen also . meanwhile st . peter and the lord were waiting , and as he was so long in coming , they set out to meet him . when gambling hansel came , however , he pretended that the money had fallen into the gutter , and kept raking about in it all the while to find it , but our lord already knew that he had lost it in play . st . peter again gave him three groschen , and now he did not allow himself to be led away once more , but fetched them the loaf . our lord then inquired if he had no wine , and he said , alack , sir , the casks are all empty . but the lord said he was to go down into the cellar , for the best wine was still there . for a long time he would not believe this , but at length he said , well , i will go down , but i know that there is none there . when he turned the tap , however , lo and behold , the best of wine ran out . so he took it to them , and the two passed the night there . early next day our lord told gambling hansel that he might beg three favors . the lord expected that he would ask to go to heaven , but gambling hansel asked for a pack of cards with which he could win everything , for dice with which he would win everything , and for a tree whereon every kind of fruit would grow , and from which no one who had climbed up , could descend until he bade him do so . the lord gave him all that he had asked , and departed with st . peter . and now gambling hansel at once set about gambling in real earnest , and before long he had gained half the world . upon this st . peter said to the lord , lord , this thing must not go on , at last he will win the whole world . we must send death to him . and they sent death to him . when death appeared , gambling hansel had just seated himself at the gaming-table , and death said , hansel , come out a while . but gambling hansel said , just wait a little until the game is done , and in the meantime get up into that tree out there , and gather a little fruit that we may have something to munch on our way . thereupon death climbed up , but when he wanted to come down again , he could not , and gambling hansel left him up there for seven years , during which time no one died . so st . peter said to the lord , lord , this thing must not go on . people no longer die , we must go ourselves . and they went themselves , and the lord commanded hansel to let death come down . so hansel went at once to death and said to him , come down , and death took him directly and put an end to him . they went away together and came to the next world , and then gambling hansel made straight for the door of heaven , and knocked at it . who is there . gambling hansel . ah , we will have nothing to do with him . begone . so he went to the door of purgatory , and knocked once more . who is there . gambling hansel . ah , there is quite enough weeping and wailing here without him . we do not want to gamble , just go away again . then he went to the door of hell , and there they let him in . there was , however , no one at home but old lucifer and the crooked devils - the straight ones were just busy in the world . and no sooner was hansel there than he sat down to gamble again . lucifer , however , had nothing to lose , but his mis-shapen devils , and gambling hansel won them from him , as with his cards he could not fail to do . and now he was off again with his crooked devils , and they went to hohenfurt and pulled up a hop-pole , and with it went to heaven and began to thrust the pole against it , and heaven began to crack . so again st . peter said , lord , this thing cannot go on , we must let him in , or he will overthrow the whole heaven . and they let him in . but gambling hansel instantly began to play again , and there was such a noise and confusion that there was no hearing what they themselves were saying . therefore st . peter once more said , lord , this cannot go on , we must throw him down , or he will make all heaven rebellious . so they went to him at once , and threw him down , and his soul broke into fragments , and went into the gambling vagabonds who are living this very day .