briar-rose a long time ago there were a king and queen who said every day , ah , if only we had a child , but they never had one . but it happened that once when the queen was bathing , a frog crept out of the water on to the land , and said to her , your wish shall be fulfilled , before a year has gone by , you shall have a daughter . what the frog had said came true , and the queen had a little girl who was so pretty that the king could not contain himself for joy , and ordered a great feast . he invited not only his kindred , friends and acquaintances , but also the wise women , in order that they might be kind and well-disposed towards the child . there were thirteen of them in his kingdom , but , as he had only twelve golden plates for them to eat out of , one of them had to be left at home . the feast was held with all manner of splendor and when it came to an end the wise women bestowed their magic gifts upon the baby - one gave virtue , another beauty , a third riches , and so on with everything in the world that one can wish for . when eleven of them had made their promises , suddenly the thirteenth came in . she wished to avenge herself for not having been invited , and without greeting , or even looking at anyone , she cried with a loud voice , the king's daughter shall in her fifteenth year prick herself with a spindle , and fall down dead . and , without saying a word more , she turned round and left the room . they were all shocked , but the twelfth , whose good wish still remained unspoken , came forward , and as she could not undo the evil sentence , but only soften it , she said , it shall not be death , but a deep sleep of a hundred years , into which the princess shall fall . the king , who would fain keep his dear child from the misfortune , gave orders that every spindle in the whole kingdom should be burnt . meanwhile the gifts of the wise women were plenteously fulfilled on the young girl , for she was so beautiful , modest , good-natured , and wise , that everyone who saw her was bound to love her . it happened that on the very day when she was fifteen years old , the king and queen were not at home , and the maiden was left in the palace quite alone . so she went round into all sorts of places , looked into rooms and bed-chambers just as she liked , and at last came to an old tower . she climbed up the narrow winding-staircase , and reached a little door . a rusty key was in the lock , and when she turned it the door sprang open , and there in a little room sat an old woman with a spindle , busily spinning her flax . good day , old mother , said the king's daughter , what are you doing there . i am spinning , said the old woman , and nodded her head . what sort of thing is that , that rattles round so merrily , said the girl , and she took the spindle and wanted to spin too . but scarcely had she touched the spindle when the magic decree was fulfilled , and she pricked her finger with it . and , in the very moment when she felt the prick , she fell down upon the bed that stood there , and lay in a deep sleep . and this sleep extended over the whole palace , the king and queen who had just come home , and had entered the great hall , began to go to sleep , and the whole of the court with them . the horses , too , went to sleep in the stable , the dogs in the yard , the pigeons upon the roof , the flies on the wall , even the fire that was flaming on the hearth became quiet and slept , the roast meat left off frizzling , and the cook , who was just going to pull the hair of the scullery boy , because he had forgotten something , let him go , and went to sleep . and the wind fell , and on the trees before the castle not a leaf moved again . but round about the castle there began to grow a hedge of thorns , which every year became higher , and at last grew close up round the castle and all over it , so that there was nothing of it to be seen , not even the flag upon the roof . but the story of the beautiful sleeping briar-rose , for so the princess was named , went about the country , so that from time to time kings' sons came and tried to get through the thorny hedge into the castle . but they found it impossible , for the thorns held fast together , as if they had hands , and the youths were caught in them , could not get loose again , and died a miserable death . after long , long years a king's son came again to that country , and heard an old man talking about the thorn-hedge , and that a castle was said to stand behind it in which a wonderfully beautiful princess , named briar-rose , had been asleep for a hundred years , and that the king and queen and the whole court were asleep likewise . he had heard , too , from his grandfather , that many kings , sons had already come , and had tried to get through the thorny hedge , but they had remained sticking fast in it , and had died a pitiful death . then the youth said , i am not afraid , i will go and see the beautiful briar-rose . the good old man might dissuade him as he would , he did not listen to his words . but by this time the hundred years had just passed , and the day had come when briar-rose was to awake again . when the king's son came near to the thorn-hedge , it was nothing but large and beautiful flowers , which parted from each other of their own accord , and let him pass unhurt , then they closed again behind him like a hedge . in the castle yard he saw the horses and the spotted hounds lying asleep , on the roof sat the pigeons with their heads under their wings . and when he entered the house , the flies were asleep upon the wall , the cook in the kitchen was still holding out his hand to seize the boy , and the maid was sitting by the black hen which she was going to pluck . he went on farther , and in the great hall he saw the whole of the court lying asleep , and up by the throne lay the king and queen . then he went on still farther , and all was so quiet that a breath could be heard , and at last he came to the tower , and opened the door into the little room where briar-rose was sleeping . there she lay , so beautiful that he could not turn his eyes away , and he stooped down and gave her a kiss . but as soon as he kissed her , briar-rose opened her eyes and awoke , and looked at him quite sweetly . then they went down together , and the king awoke , and the queen , and the whole court , and looked at each other in great astonishment . and the horses in the courtyard stood up and shook themselves , the hounds jumped up and wagged their tails , the pigeons upon the roof pulled out their heads from under their wings , looked round , and flew into the open country , the flies on the wall crept again , the fire in the kitchen burned up and flickered and cooked the meat , the joint began to turn and sizzle again , and the cook gave the boy such a box on the ear that he screamed , and the maid finished plucking the fowl . and then the marriage of the king's son with briar-rose was celebrated with all splendor , and they lived contented to the end of their days .