there were once a little brother and a little sister , who loved each other with all their hearts . their own mother , however , was dead , and they had a step-mother who was not kind to them , and secretly did everything she could to hurt them . it so happened that the two were playing with other children in a meadow before the house , and there was a pond in the meadow which came up to one side of the house . the children ran about it , and caught each other , and played at counting out . eneke beneke , let me live , and i to you my bird will give . the little bird , it straw shall seek , the straw i'll give to the cow to eat . the pretty cow shall give me milk , the milk i'll to the baker take . the baker he shall bake a cake , the cake i'll give unto the cat . the cat shall catch some mice for that , the mice i'll hang up in the smoke , and then you'll see the snow . they stood in a circle while they played this , and the one to whom the word snow fell , had to run away and all the others ran after him and caught him . as they were running about so merrily the step-mother watched them from the window , and grew angry . and as she understood arts of witchcraft she bewitched them both , and changed the little brother into a fish , and the little sister into a lamb . then the fish swam here and there about the pond and was very sad , and the lambkin walked up and down the meadow , and was miserable , and could not eat or touch one blade of grass . thus passed a long time , and then strangers came as visitors to the castle . the false step-mother thought , this is a good opportunity , and called the cook and said to him , go and fetch the lamb from the meadow and kill it , we have nothing else for the visitors . then the cook went away and got the lamb , and took it into the kitchen and tied its feet , and all this it bore patiently . when he had drawn out his knife and was whetting it on the door-step to kill the lamb , he noticed a little fish swimming backwards and forwards in the water , in front of the gutter-stone and looking up at him . this , however , was the brother , for when the fish saw the cook take the lamb away , it followed them and swam along the pond to the house , then the lamb cried down to it , ah , brother , in the pond so deep , how sad is my poor heart . the cook he whets his knife to take away my life . the little fish answered , ah , little sister , up on high how sad is my poor heart while in this pond i lie . when the cook heard that the lambkin could speak and said such sad words to the fish down below , he was terrified and thought this could be no common lamb , but must be bewitched by the wicked woman in the house . then said he , be easy , i will not kill you , and took another sheep and made it ready for the guests , and conveyed the lambkin to a good peasant woman , to whom he related all that he had seen and heard . the peasant , however , was the very woman who had been foster-mother to the little sister , and she suspected at once who the lamb was , and went with it to a wise woman . then the wise woman pronounced a blessing over the lambkin and the little fish , by means of which they regained their human forms , and after this she took them both into a little hut in a great forest , where they lived alone , but were contented and happy .