there was once a poor peasant who had no land , but only a small house , and one daughter . then said the daughter , we ought to ask our lord the king for a bit of newly-cleared land . when the king heard of their poverty , he presented them with a piece of land , which she and her father dug up , and intended to sow with a little corn and grain of that kind . when they had dug nearly the whole of the field , they found in the earth a mortar made of pure gold . listen , said the father to the girl , as our lord the king has been so gracious and presented us with the field , we ought to give him this mortar in return for it . the daughter , however , would not consent to this , and said , father , if we have the mortar without having the pestle as well , we shall have to get the pestle , so you had much better say nothing about it . but he would not obey her , and took the mortar and carried it to the king , said that he had found it in the cleared land , and asked if he would accept it as a present . the king took the mortar , and asked if he had found nothing besides that . no , answered the countryman . then the king said that he must now bring him the pestle . the peasant said they had not found that , but he might just as well have spoken to the wind , he was put in prison , and was to stay there until he produced the pestle . the servants had daily to carry him bread and water , which is what people get in prison , and they heard how the man cried out continually , ah , if i had but listened to my daughter . alas , alas , if i had but listened to my daughter , and would neither eat nor drink . so he commanded the servants to bring the prisoner before him , and then the king asked the peasant why he was always crying , ah , if i had but listened to my daughter , and what it was that his daughter had said . she told me that i ought not to take the mortar to you , for i should have to produce the pestle as well . if you have a daughter who is as wise as that , let her come here . she was therefore obliged to appear before the king , who asked her if she really was so wise , and said he would set her a riddle , and if she could guess that , he would marry her . she at once said yes , she would guess it . then said the king , come to me not clothed , not naked , not riding , not walking , not in the road , and not off the road , and if you can do that i will marry you . so she went away , put off everything she had on , and then she was not clothed , and took a great fishing net , and seated herself in it and wrapped it entirely round and round her , so that she was not naked , and she hired an ass , and tied the fisherman's net to its tail , so that it was forced to drag her along , and that was neither riding nor walking . the ass had also to drag her in the ruts , so that she only touched the ground with her big toe , and that was neither being in the road nor off the road . and when she arrived in that fashion , the king said she had guessed the riddle and fulfilled all the conditions . then he ordered her father to be released from the prison , took her to wife , and gave into her care all the royal possessions . now when some years had passed , the king was once reviewing his troops on parade , when it happened that some peasants who had been selling wood stopped with their waggons before the palace , some of them had oxen yoked to them , and some horses . there was one peasant who had three horses , one of which was delivered of a young foal , and it ran away and lay down between two oxen which were in front of the waggon . when the peasants came together , they began to dispute , to beat each other and make a disturbance , and the peasant with the oxen wanted to keep the foal , and said one of the oxen had given birth to it , and the other said his horse had had it , and that it was his . the quarrel came before the king , and he give the verdict that the foal should stay where it had been found , and so the peasant with the oxen , to whom it did not belong , got it . then the other went away , and wept and lamented over his foal . now he had heard how gracious his lady the queen was because she herself had sprung from poor peasant folks , so he went to her and begged her to see if she could not help him to get his foal back again . said she , yes , i will tell you what to do , if you will promise me not to betray me . early to-morrow morning , when the king parades the guard , place yourself there in the middle of the road by which he must pass , take a great fishing-net and pretend to be fishing , go on fishing , and empty out the net as if you had got it full , and then she told him also what he was to say if he was questioned by the king . the next day , therefore , the peasant stood there , and fished on dry ground . when the king passed by , and saw that , he sent his messenger to ask what the stupid man was about . he answered , i am fishing . the messenger asked how he could fish when there was no water there . the peasant said , it is as easy for me to fish on dry land as it is for an ox to have a foal . the messenger went back and took the answer to the king , who ordered the peasant to be brought to him and told him that this was not his own idea , and he wanted to know whose it was . the peasant , said the king , must confess this at once . the peasant , however , would not do so , and said always , god forbid he should , the idea was his own . so they laid him on a heap of straw , and beat him and tormented him so long that at last he admitted that he had got the idea from the queen . when the king reached home again , he said to his wife , why have you behaved so falsely to me . i will not have you any longer for a wife , your time is up , go back to the place from whence you came - to your peasant's hut . one favor , however , he granted her , she might take with her the one thing that was dearest and best in her eyes , and thus was she dismissed . she said , yes , my dear husband , if you command this , i will do it , and she embraced him and kissed him , and said she would take leave of him . then she ordered a powerful sleeping draught to be brought , to drink farewell to him , the king took a long draught , but she took only a little . he soon fell into a deep sleep , and when she perceived that , she called a servant and took a fair white linen cloth and wrapped the king in it , and the servant was forced to carry him into a carriage that stood before the door , and she drove with him to her own little house . she laid him in her own little bed , and he slept one day and one night without awakening , and when he awoke he looked round and said , good god , where am i . he called his attendants , but none of them were there . at length his wife came to his bedside and said , my dear lord and king , you told me i might bring away with me from the palace that which was dearest and most precious in my eyes - i have nothing more precious and dear than yourself , so i have brought you with me . tears rose to the king's eyes and he said , dear wife , you shall be mine and i will be yours , and he took her back with him to the royal palace and was married again to her , and at the present time they are very likely still living .