there was once upon a time a far-sighted , crafty peasant whose tricks were much talked about . the best story , however , is how he once got hold of the devil , and made a fool of him . the peasant had one day been working in his field , and as twilight had set in , was making ready for the journey home , when he saw a heap of burning coals in the middle of his field , and when , full of astonishment , he went up to it , a little black devil was sitting on the live coals . are you sitting upon a treasure , said the peasant . yes , in truth , replied the devil , on a treasure which contains more gold and silver than you have ever seen in your life . the treasure lies in my field and belongs to me , said the peasant . it is yours , answered the devil , if you will for two years give me one half of everything your field produces . money i have enough , but i have a desire for the fruits of the earth . the peasant agreed to the bargain . in order , however , that no dispute may arise about the division , said he , everything that is above ground shall belong to you , and what is under the earth to me . the devil was quite satisfied with that , but the cunning peasant had sown turnips . now when the time for harvest came , the devil appeared and wanted to take away his crop . but he found nothing but the yellow withered leaves , while the peasant , full of delight , was digging up his turnips . you have had the best of it for once , said the devil , but the next time that won't do . what grows above ground shall be yours , and what is under it , mine . i am willing , replied the peasant . but when the time came to sow , he did not again sow turnips , but wheat . the grain became ripe , and the peasant went into the field and cut the full stalks down to the ground . when the devil came , he found nothing but the stubble , and went away in a fury down into a cleft in the rocks . that is the way to cheat the devil , said the peasant , and went and fetched away the treasure .