a young drummer went out quite alone one evening into the country , and came to a lake on the shore of which he perceived lying there three pieces of white linen . what fine linen , said he , and put one piece in his pocket . he returned home , thought no more of what he had found , and went to bed . just as he was going to sleep , it seemed to him as if someone was calling his name . he listened , and was aware of a soft voice which cried to him , drummer , drummer , wake up . as it was a dark night he could see no one , but it appeared to him that a figure was hovering about his bed . what do you want , he asked . give me back my shift , answered the voice , that you took away from me last evening by the lake . you shall have it back again , said the drummer , if you will tell me who you are . ah , replied the voice , i am the daughter of a mighty king . but i have fallen into the power of a witch , and am shut up on the glass-mountain . i have to bathe in the lake every day with my two sisters , but i cannot fly back again without my shift . my sisters have gone away , but i have been forced to stay behind . i entreat you to give me my shift back . don't worry , poor child , said the drummer . i will willingly give it back to you . he took it out of his pocket , and reached it to her in the dark . she snatched it in haste , and wanted to go away with it . stop a moment , perhaps i can help you . you can only help me by ascending the glass-mountain , and indeed if you were quite close to it you could not ascend it . when i want to do a thing i always can do it , said the drummer . i am sorry for you , and have no fear of anything . but i do not know the way which leads to the glass-mountain . the road goes through the great forest , in which the man-eaters live , she answered , and more than that , i dare not tell you . and then he heard her wings as she flew away . by daybreak the drummer arose , buckled on his drums , and went without fear straight into the forest . after he had walked for a while without seeing any giants , he thought to himself , i must waken up the sluggards , and he hung his drum before him , and beat such a roll that the birds flew out of the trees with loud cries . it was not long before a giant who had been lying sleeping among the grass , rose up , and was as tall as a fir-tree . wretch , cried he , what are you drumming here for , and wakening me out of my best sleep . i am drumming , he replied , because i want to show the way to many thousands who are following me . what do they want in my forest , demanded the giant . they want to put an end to you , and cleanse the forest of such a monster as you . oho . said the giant , i will trample you all to death like so many ants . do you think you can do anything against us , said the drummer , if you stoop to take hold of one , he will jump away and hide himself . but when you are lying down and sleeping , they will come forth from every thicket , and creep up to you . every one of them has a hammer of steel in his belt , and with that they will beat in your skull . the giant grew angry and thought , if i meddle with the crafty folk , it might turn out badly for me . i can strangle wolves and bears , but i cannot protect myself from these earth-worms . listen , little fellow , said he , go back again , and i will promise you that for the future i will leave you and your comrades in peace , and if there is anything else you wish for , tell me , for i am quite willing to do something to please you . you have long legs , said the drummer , and can run quicker than i . carry me to the glass-mountain , and i will give my followers a signal to go back , and they shall leave you in peace this time . come here , worm , said the giant . seat yourself on my shoulder , i will carry you where you wish to be . the giant lifted him up , and the drummer began to beat his drum up aloft to his heart's delight . the giant thought , that is the signal for the other people to turn back . after a while , a second giant was standing in the road , who took the drummer from the first , and stuck him in his button-hole . the drummer laid hold of the button , which was as large as a dish , held on by it , and looked merrily around . then they came to a third giant , who took him out of the button-hole , and set him on the rim of his hat . up there the drummer walked backwards and forwards , and looked over the trees , and when he perceived a mountain in the blue distance , he thought , that must be the glass-mountain , and so it was . the giant only made two more steps , and they reached the foot of the mountain , where the giant put him down . the drummer demanded to be put on the summit of the glass-mountain , but the giant shook his head , growled something in his beard , and went back into the forest . and now the poor drummer was standing before the mountain , which was as high as if three mountains were piled on each other , and at the same time as smooth as a looking-glass , and did not know how to get up it . he began to climb , but that was useless , for he always slipped back again . if one was a bird now , thought he . but what was the good of wishing , no wings grew for him . whilst he was standing thus , not knowing what to do , he saw , not far from him , two men who were struggling fiercely together . he went up to them and saw that they were disputing about a saddle which was lying on the ground before them , and which both of them wanted to have . what fools you are , said he , to quarrel about a saddle , when you have not a horse for it . the saddle is worth fighting about , answered one of the men . whosoever sits on it , and wishes himself in any place , even if it should be the very end of the earth , gets there the instant he has uttered the wish . the saddle belongs to us in common . it is my turn to ride on it , but that other man will not let me do it . i will soon decide the quarrel , said the drummer , and he went to a short distance and stuck a white rod in the ground . then he came back and said , now run to the goal , and whoever gets there first , shall ride first . both set out at a trot , but hardly had they gone a couple of steps before the drummer swung himself on the saddle , wished himself on the glass-mountain and before any one could turn round , he was there . on the top of the mountain was a plain . there stood an old stone house , and in front of the house lay a great fish-pond , but behind it was a dark forest . he saw neither men nor animals , everything was quiet . only the wind rustled amongst the trees , and the clouds moved by quite close above his head . he went to the door and knocked . when he had knocked for the third time , an old woman with a brown face and red eyes opened the door . she had spectacles on her long nose , and looked sharply at him . then she asked what he wanted . entrance , food , and a bed for the night , replied the drummer . that you shall have , said the old woman , if you will perform three services in return . why not , he answered , i am not afraid of any kind of work , however , hard it may be . the old woman let him go in , and gave him some food and a good bed at night . the next morning when he had slept his fill , she took a thimble from her wrinkled finger , reached it to the drummer , and said , go to work now , and empty out the pond with this thimble . but you must have done it before night , and must have sought out all the fishes which are in the water and laid them side by side , according to their kind and size . that is strange work , said the drummer , but he went to the pond , and began to empty it . he baled the whole morning . but what can anyone do to a great lake with a thimble , even if he were to bale for a thousand years . when it was noon , he thought , it is all useless , and whether i work or not it will come to the same thing . so he gave it up and sat down . then came a maiden out of the house who set a little basket with food before him , and said , what ails you , that you sit so sadly here . he looked at her , and saw that she was wondrously beautiful . ah , said he , i cannot finish the first piece of work , how will it be with the others . i came forth to seek a king's daughter who is said to dwell here , but i have not found her , and i will go farther . stay here , said the maiden , i will help you out of your difficulty . you are tired , lay your head in my lap , and sleep . when you awake again , your work will be done . the drummer did not need to be told that twice . as soon as his eyes were shut , she turned a wishing-ring and said , rise , water . fishes , come out . instantly the water rose on high like a white mist , and moved away with the other clouds , and the fishes sprang on the shore and laid themselves side by side each according to his size and kind . when the drummer awoke , he saw with amazement that all was done . but the maiden said , one of the fish is not lying with those of its own kind , but quite alone . when the old woman comes to-night and sees that all she demanded has been done , she will ask you , what is this fish lying alone for . then throw the fish in her face , and say , this one shall be for you , old witch . in the evening the witch came , and when she had put this question , he threw the fish in her face . she behaved as if she did not notice it , and said nothing , but looked at him with malicious eyes . next morning she said , yesterday it was too easy for you , i must give you harder work . to-day you must hew down the whole of the forest , split the wood into logs , and pile them up , and everything must be finished by the evening . she gave him an axe , a mallet , and two wedges . but the axe was made of lead , and the mallet and wedges were of tin . when he began to cut , the edge of the axe was blunted , and the mallet and wedges were beaten out of shape . he did not know how to manage , but at mid-day the maiden came once more with his dinner and comforted him . lay your head on my lap , said she , and sleep . when you awake , your work will be done . she turned her wishing-ring , and in an instant the whole forest fell down with a crash , the wood split , and arranged itself in heaps , and it seemed just as if unseen giants were finishing the work . when he awoke , the maiden said , do you see that the wood is piled up and arranged , one bough alone remains . but when the old woman comes this evening and asks you about that bough , give her a blow with it , and say , that is for you , you witch . the old woman came , there you see how easy the work was , said she . but for whom have you left that bough . for you , you witch , he replied , and gave her a blow with it . but she pretended not to feel it , laughed scornfully , and said , early to-morrow morning you shall arrange all the wood in one heap , set fire to it , and burn it . he rose at break of day , and began to pick up the wood , but how can a single man get a whole forest together . the work made no progress . the maiden , however , did not desert him in his need . she brought him his food at noon , and when he had eaten , he laid his head on her lap , and went to sleep . when he awoke , the entire pile of wood was burning in one enormous flame , which stretched its tongues out into the sky . listen to me , said the maiden , when the witch comes , she will give you all kinds of orders . do whatever she asks you without fear , and then she will not be able to get the better of you , but if you are afraid , the fire will lay hold of you , and consume you . at last when you have done everything , seize her with both your hands , and throw her into the midst of the fire . the maiden departed , and the old woman came sneaking up to him . oh , i am cold , said she , but that is a fire that burns . it warms my old bones , and does me good . but i see a log lying there which won't burn , bring it out for me . when you have done that , you are free , and may go where you like . now , jump in . the drummer did not reflect long . he sprang into the midst of the flames , but they did not hurt him , and could not even singe a hair of his head . he carried the log out , and laid it down . hardly , however , had the wood touched the earth than it was transformed , and the beautiful maiden who had helped him in his need stood before him , and by the silken and shining golden garments which she wore , he knew right well that she was the king's daughter . but the old woman laughed venomously , and said , you think you have her safe , but you have not got her yet . just as she was about to fall on the maiden and take her away , the youth seized the old woman with both his hands , raised her up on high , and threw her into the jaws of the fire , which closed over her as if it were delighted that an old witch was to be burnt . then the king's daughter looked at the drummer , and when she saw that he was a handsome youth and remembered how he had risked his life to deliver her , she gave him her hand , and said , you have ventured everything for my sake , but i also will do everything for yours . promise to be true to me , and you shall be my husband . we shall not want for riches , we shall have enough with what the witch has gathered together here . she led him into the house , where there were chests and coffers crammed with the old woman's treasures . the maiden left the gold and silver where it was , and took only the precious stones . she would not stay any longer on the glass-mountain , so the drummer said to her , seat yourself by me on my saddle , and then we will fly down like birds . i do not like the old saddle , said she , i need only turn my wishing-ring and we shall be at home . very well , then , answered the drummer , then wish us in front of the town-gate . in the twinkling of an eye they were there , but the drummer said , i will just go to my parents and tell them the news . wait for me outside here , i shall soon be back . ah , said the king's daughter , i beg you to be careful . on your arrival do not kiss your parents on the right cheek , or else you will forget everything , and i shall stay behind here outside , alone and deserted . how can i forget you , said he , and promised her to come back very soon , and gave his hand upon it . when he went into his father's house , he had changed so much that no one knew who he was , for the three days which he had passed on the glass-mountain had been three years . then he made himself known , and his parents fell on his neck with joy , and his heart was so moved that he forgot what the maiden had said and kissed them on both cheeks . but when he had given them the kiss on the right cheek , every thought of the king's daughter vanished from him . he emptied out his pockets , and laid handfuls of the largest jewels on the table . the parents had not the least idea what to do with the riches . then the father built a magnificent castle all surrounded by gardens , woods , and meadows as if a prince were going to live in it , and when it was ready , the mother said , i have found a maiden for you and the wedding shall be in three days . the son was content to do as his parents desired . the poor king's daughter had stood for a long time outside the town waiting for the return of the young man . when evening came , she said , he must certainly have kissed his parents on the right cheek , and has forgotten me . her heart was full of sorrow , she wished herself into a solitary little hut in a forest , and would not return to her father's court . every evening she went into the town and passed the young man's house . he often saw her , but he no longer knew her . at length she heard the people saying , the wedding will take place to-morrow . then she said , i will try if i can win back his heart . on the first day of the wedding ceremonies , she turned her wishing-ring , and said , a dress as bright as the sun . instantly the dress lay before her , and it was as bright as if it had been woven of real sunbeams . when all the guests were assembled , she entered the hall . every one was amazed at the beautiful dress , and the bride most of all , and as pretty dresses were the things she had most delight in , she went to the stranger and asked if she would sell it to her . not for money , she answered , but if i may pass the first night outside the door of the room where your betrothed sleeps , i will give it up to you . the bride could not overcome her desire and consented , but she mixed a sleeping-draught with the wine her betrothed took at night , which made him fall into a deep sleep . when all had be- - line missing in book copy - of the bedroom , opened it just a little , and cried , drummer , drummer , i pray you hear . have you forgotten you held me dear . that on the glass-mountain we sat hour by hour . that i rescued your life from the witch's power . did you not plight your troth to me . drummer , drummer , hearken to me . but it was all in vain , for the drummer did not awake , and when morning dawned , the king's daughter was forced to go back again as she came . on the second evening she turned her wishing-ring and said , a dress as silvery as the moon . when she appeared at the feast in the dress which was as soft as moonbeams , it again excited the desire of the bride , and the king's daughter gave it to her for permission to pass the second night also , outside the door of the bedroom . when in the stillness of the night , she cried , drummer , drummer , i pray you hear . have you forgotten you held me dear . that on the glass-mountain we sat hour by hour . that i rescued your life from the witch's power . did you not plight your troth to me . drummer , drummer , hearken to me . but the drummer , who was stupefied with the sleeping-draught , could not be aroused . sadly next morning she went back to her hut in the forest . but the people in the house had heard the lamentation of the unknown maiden , and told the bridegroom about it . they told him also that it was impossible that he could hear anything of it , because the maiden he was going to marry had poured a sleeping-draught into his wine . on the third evening , the king's daughter turned her wishing-ring , and said , a dress glittering like the stars . when she showed herself therein at the feast , the bride was quite beside herself with the splendor of the dress , which far surpassed the others , and she said , i must , and will have it . the maiden gave it as she had given the others for permission to spend the night outside the bridegroom's door . the bridegroom , however , did not drink the wine which was handed to him before he went to bed , but poured it behind the bed , and when everything was quiet , he heard a sweet voice which called to him , drummer , drummer , i pray you hear . have you forgotten you held me dear . that on the glass-mountain we sat hour by hour . that i rescued your life from the witch's power . did you not plight your troth to me . drummer , drummer , hearken to me . suddenly his memory returned to him . ah , cried he , how can i have acted so unfaithfully . but the kiss which in the joy of my heart i gave my parents , on the right cheek , that is to blame for it all . that is what stupefied me . he sprang up , took the king's daughter by the hand , and led her to his parents , bed . this is my true bride , said he . if i marry the other , i shall do a great wrong . the parents , when they heard how everything had happened , gave their consent . then the lights in the hall were lighted again , drums and trumpets were brought , friends and relations were invited to come , and the real wedding was solemnized with great rejoicing . the first bride received the beautiful dresses as a compensation , and declared herself satisfied .