once upon a time a mouse , a bird , and a sausage became companions , kept house together , lived well and happily in peace , and wonderfully increased their possessions . the bird's work was to fly every day into the forest and bring back wood . the mouse had to carry water , light the fire , and lay the table , but the sausage had to cook . he who is too well off is always longing for something new . one day the bird met with another bird , to whom it related its excellent circumstances and boasted of them . the other bird , however , called it a poor simpleton for his hard work , but said that the two at home had good times . for when the mouse had made her fire and carried her water , she went into her little room to rest until they called her to lay the table . the sausage stayed by the pot , saw that the food was cooking well , and , when it was nearly time for dinner , it rolled itself once or twice through the broth or vegetables and then they were buttered , salted , and ready . when the bird came home and laid his burden down , they sat down to dinner , and after they had had their meal , they slept their fill till next morning , and that was a splendid life . next day the bird , prompted by the other bird , would go no more into the wood , saying that he had been servant long enough , and had been made a fool of by them , and that they must change about for once , and try to arrange it in another way . and , though the mouse and the sausage also begged most earnestly , the bird would have his way , and said it must be tried . they cast lots about it , and the lot fell on the sausage who was to carry wood , the mouse became cook , and the bird was to fetch water . what happened . the little sausage went out towards the wood , the little bird lighted the fire , the mouse stayed by the pot and waited alone until little sausage came home and brought wood for next day . but the little sausage stayed so long on the road that they both feared something was amiss , and the bird flew out a little way in the air to meet it . not far off , however , it met a dog on the road who had fallen on the poor sausage as lawful booty , and had seized and swallowed it . the bird charged the dog with an act of bare-faced robbery , but words were useless , for the dog said he had found forged letters on the sausage , on which account its life was forfeited to him . the bird sadly took up the wood , flew home , and related what he had seen and heard . they were much troubled , but agreed to do their best and remain together . the bird therefore laid the table , and the mouse made ready the food , and wanted to dress it , and to get into the pot as the sausage used to do , and roll and creep amongst the vegetables to mix them . but before she got into the midst of them she was stopped , and lost her skin and hair and life in the attempt . when the bird came to carry in the dinner , no cook was there . in its distress the bird threw the wood here and there , called and searched , but no cook was to be found . owing to his carelessness the wood caught fire , so that a conflagration broke out . the bird hastened to fetch water , but the bucket dropped into the well , and he fell in with it , and could not recover himself , but had to drown there .