a tailor and a goldsmith were traveling together , and one evening when the sun had sunk behind the mountains , they heard the sound of distant music , which became more and more distinct . it sounded strange , but so pleasant that they forgot all their weariness and stepped quickly onwards . the moon had already arisen when they reached a hill on which they saw a crowd of little men and women , who had taken each other's hands , and were whirling round in the dance with the greatest pleasure and delight . they sang to it most charmingly , and that was the music which the travelers had heard . in the midst of them sat an old man who was rather taller than the rest . he wore a parti-colored coat , and his hoary beard hung down over his breast . the two remained standing full of astonishment , and watched the dance . the old man made a sign that they should enter , and the little folks willingly opened their circle . the goldsmith , who had a hump , and like all hunch-backs was daring enough , stepped in . the tailor felt a little afraid at first , and held back , but when he saw how merrily all was going , he plucked up his courage , and followed . the circle closed again directly , and the little folks went on singing and dancing with the wildest leaps . the old man , however , took a large knife which hung to his girdle , whetted it , and when it was sufficiently sharpened , he looked round at the strangers . they were terrified , but they had not much time for reflection , for the old man seized the goldsmith and with the greatest speed , shaved the hair of his head clean off , and then the same thing happened to the tailor . but their fear left them when , after he had finished his work , the old man clapped them both on the shoulder in a friendly manner , as much as to say , they had behaved well to let all that be done to them willingly , and without any struggle . he pointed with his finger to a heap of coals which lay at one side , and signified to the travelers by his gestures that they were to fill their pockets with them . both of them obeyed , although they did not know of what use the coals would be to them , and then they went on their way to seek a shelter for the night . when they had got into the valley , the clock of the neighboring monastery struck twelve , and the song ceased . in a moment all had vanished , and the hill lay in solitude in the moonlight . the two travelers found an inn , and covered themselves up on their straw-beds with their coats , but in their weariness forgot to take the coals out of them before doing so . a heavy weight on their limbs awakened them earlier than usual . they felt in the pockets , and could not believe their eyes when they saw that they were not filled with coals , but with pure gold . happily , too , the hair of their heads and beards was there again as thick as ever . they had now become rich folks , but the goldsmith , who , in accordance with his greedy disposition , had filled his pockets better , was twice as rich as the tailor . a greedy man , even if he has much , still wishes to have more , so the goldsmith proposed to the tailor that they should wait another day , and go out again in the evening in order to bring back still greater treasures from the old man on the hill . the tailor refused , and said , i have enough and am content . now i shall be a master , and marry my dear object - for so he called his sweetheart - and i am a happy man . but he stayed another day to please him . in the evening the goldsmith hung a couple of bags over his shoulders that he might be able to stow away a great deal , and took the road to the hill . he found , as on the night before , the little folks at their singing and dancing , and the old man again shaved him clean , and made signs to him to take some coal . he was not slow about stuffing as much into his bags as would go , went back quite delighted , and covered himself over with his coat . even if the gold does weigh heavily , said he , i will gladly bear that , and at last he fell asleep with the sweet anticipation of waking in the morning an enormously rich man . when he opened his eyes , he got up in haste to examine his pockets , but how amazed he was when he drew nothing out of them but black coals , and that howsoever often he put his hands in them . the gold i got the night before is still there for me , thought he , and went and brought it out , but how shocked he was when he saw that it likewise had again turned into coal . he smote his forehead with his dusty black hand , and then he felt that his whole head was bald and smooth , as was also the place where his beard should have been . but his misfortunes were not yet over . he now remarked for the first time that in addition to the hump on his back , a second , just as large , had grown in front on his breast . then he recognized the punishment of his greediness , and began to weep aloud . the good tailor , who was awakened by this , comforted the unhappy fellow as well as he could , and said , you have been my comrade in my traveling time . you shall stay with me and share in my wealth . he kept his word , but the poor goldsmith was obliged to carry the two humps as long as he lived , and to cover his bald head with a cap .