there were once two brothers , the one rich , the other poor . the rich one , however , gave nothing to the poor one , and he gained a scanty living by trading in corn , and often did so badly that he had no bread for his wife and children . once when he was wheeling a barrow through the forest he saw , on one side of him , a great , bare , naked-looking mountain , and as he had never seen it before , he stood still and stared at it with amazement . while he was thus standing he saw twelve great , wild men coming towards him , and as he believed they were robbers he pushed his barrow into the thicket , climbed up a tree , and waited to see what would happen . the twelve men , however , went to the mountain and cried , semsi mountain , semsi mountain , open up , and immediately the barren mountain opened down the middle , and the twelve went into it , and as soon as they were within , it shut . after a short time , it opened again , and the men came forth carrying heavy sacks on their shoulders , and when they were all once more in the daylight they said , semsi mountain , semsi mountain , shut yourself , then the mountain closed together , and there was no longer any entrance to be seen to it , and the twelve went away . when they were quite out of sight the poor man got down from the tree , and was curious to know what was secretly hidden in the mountain . so he went up to it and said , semsi mountain , semsi mountain , open up , and the mountain opened up to him also . then he went inside , and the whole mountain was a cavern full of silver and gold , and behind lay great piles of pearls and sparkling jewels , heaped up like corn . the poor man hardly knew what to do , and whether he might take any of these treasures for himself or not . at last he filled his pockets with gold , but he left the pearls and precious stones where they were . when he came out again he also said , semsi mountain , semsi mountain , shut yourself , and the mountain closed itself , and he went home with his barrow . and now he had no more cause for anxiety , but could buy bread for his wife and children with his gold , and wine into the bargain . he lived joyously and honorably , gave help to the poor , and did good to every one . when the money came to an end , however , he went to his brother , borrowed a measure that held a bushel , and brought himself some more , but did not touch any of the most valuable things . when for the third time he wanted to fetch something , he again borrowed the measure of his brother . but the rich man had long been envious of his brother's possessions , and of the handsome household which he kept up , and could not understand from whence the riches came , and what his brother wanted with the measure . then he thought of a cunning trick , and covered the bottom of the measure with pitch , and when he got the measure back a piece of gold was sticking to it . he at once went to his brother and asked him , what have you been measuring in the bushel measure . corn and barley , said the other . then he showed him the piece of gold and threatened that if he did not tell the truth he would accuse him before a court of justice . the poor man then told him everything , just as it had happened . so the rich man ordered his carriage to be made ready , and drove away , resolved to use the opportunity better than his brother had done , and to bring back with him quite different treasures . when he came to the mountain he cried , semsi mountain , semsi mountain , open up . the mountain opened , and he went inside it . there lay the treasures all before him , and for a long time he did not know which to grab first . at length he loaded himself with as many precious stones as he could carry . he wished to carry his burden outside , but as his heart and soul were entirely full of the treasures , he had forgotten the name of the mountain , and cried , simeli mountain , simeli mountain , open up . that , however , was not the right name , and the mountain never stirred , but remained shut . then he was alarmed , and the longer he thought about it the more his thoughts confused themselves , and all his treasures were of no help to him . in the evening the mountain opened , and the twelve robbers came in , and when they saw him they laughed , and cried out , bird , have we caught you at last . did you think we had never noticed that you had been in here twice . we could not catch you then , this third time you shall not get out again . then he cried , it was not i , it was my brother , but let him beg for his life and say what he would , they cut off his head .