there was once on a time a mother who had three daughters , the eldest of whom was rude and wicked , the second much better , although she had her faults , but the youngest was a pious , good child . the mother , however , was so strange , that it was just the eldest daughter whom she most loved , and she could not bear the youngest . on this account , she often sent the poor girl out into the great forest in order to get rid of her , for she thought she would lose herself and never come back again . but the guardian-angel which every good child has , did not forsake her , but always brought her into the right path again . once , however , the guardian-angel behaved as if he were not there , and the child could not find her way out of the forest again . she walked on constantly until evening came , and then she saw a tiny light burning in the distance , ran up to it at once , and came to a little hut . she knocked , the door opened , and she came to a second door , where she knocked again . an old man , who had a snow-white beard and looked venerable , opened it for her . and he was no other than st . joseph . he said quite kindly , come , dear child , seat yourself on my little chair by the fire , and warm yourself . i will fetch you clear water if you are thirsty . but here in the forest , i have nothing for you to eat but a couple of little roots , which you must first scrape and boil . st . joseph gave her the roots . the girl scraped them clean , then she brought a piece of pancake and the bread that her mother had given her to take with her , mixed all together in a pan , and cooked herself a thick soup . when it was ready , st . joseph said , i am so hungry , give me some of your food . the child was quite willing , and gave him more than she kept for herself , but god's blessing was with her , so that she was satisfied . when they had eaten , st . joseph said , now we will go to bed . i have , however , only one bed , lay your self in it . i will lie on the ground on the straw . no , answered she , stay in your own bed , the straw is soft enough for me . but st . joseph took the child in his arms , and carried her into the little bed , and there she said her prayers , and fell asleep . next morning when she awoke , she wanted to say good morning to st . joseph , but she did not see him . then she got up and looked for him , but could not find him anywhere . at last she perceived , behind the door , a bag with money so heavy that she could just carry it , and on it was written that it was for the child who had slept there that night . on this she took the bag , bounded away with it , and got safely to her mother , and as she gave her mother all the money , she could not help being satisfied with her . the next day , the second child also took a fancy to go into the forest . her mother gave her a much larger piece of pancake and bread . it happened with her just as with the first child . in the evening she came to st . joseph's little hut , who gave her roots for a thick soup . when it was ready , he likewise said to her , i am so hungry , give me some of your food . then the child said , you may have your share . afterwards , when st . joseph offered her his bed and wanted to lie on the straw , she replied , no , lie down in the bed , there is plenty of room for both of us . st . joseph took her in his arms and put her in the bed , and laid himself on the straw . in the morning when the child awoke and looked for st . joseph , he had vanished , but behind the door she found a little sack of money that was about as long as a hand , and on it was written that it was for the child who had slept there last night . so she took the little bag and ran home with it , and took it to her mother , but she secretly kept two pieces for herself . the eldest daughter had by this time grown inquisitive , and the next morning also insisted on going out into the forest . her mother gave her pancakes - as many as she wanted , and bread and cheese as well . in the evening she found st . joseph in his little hut , just as the two others had found him . when the soup was ready and st . joseph said , i am so hungry , give me some of the food , the girl answered , wait until i am satisfied , then if there is anything left you shall have it . but she ate nearly the whole of it , and st . joseph had to scrape the dish . afterwards , the good old man offered her his bed , and wanted to lie on the straw . she took it without making any opposition , laid herself down in the little bed , and left the hard straw to the white-haired man . next morning when she awoke , st . joseph was not to be found , but she did not trouble herself about that . she looked behind the door for a money-bag . she fancied something was lying on the ground , but as she could not very well distinguish what it was , she stooped down , so that she touched it with her nose , where it remained hanging , and when she got up again , she saw , to her horror , that it was a second nose , which was hanging fast to her own . then she began to scream and howl , but that did no good . she always had to look at her nose , for it stretched out so far . then she ran out and screamed without stopping till she met st . joseph , at whose feet she fell and begged until , out of pity , he took the nose off her again , and even gave her two farthings . when she got home , her mother was standing before the door , and asked , what have you had given to you . then she lied and said , a great bag of money , but i have lost it on the way . lost it . cried the mother . oh , but we will soon find it again , and took her by the hand , and wanted to seek it with her . at first she began to cry , and did not wish to go , but at last she went . on the way , however , so many lizards and snakes broke loose on both of them , that they did not know how to save themselves . at last they stung the wicked child to death , and they stung the mother in the foot , because she had not brought her up better .