a louse and a flea kept house together and were brewing beer in an egg-shell . then the little louse fell in and burnt herself . at this the little flea began to scream loudly . then said the little room-door , little flea , why are you screaming . because the louse has burnt herself . then the little door began to creak . at this a little broom in the corner said , why are you creaking , little door . have i not reason to creak . the little louse has burnt herself , the little flea is weeping . so the little broom began to sweep frantically . then a little cart passed by and said , why are you sweeping , little broom . have i not reason to sweep . the little louse has burnt herself , the little flea is weeping , the little door is creaking . so the little cart said , then i will run , and began to run like mad . then said the ash-heap by which it ran , why are you running so , little cart . have i not reason to run . the little louse has burnt herself , the little flea is weeping , the little door is creaking , the little broom is sweeping . the ash-heap said , then i will burn furiously , and began to burn in clear flames . a little tree stood near the ash-heap and said , ash-heap , why are you burning . have i not reason to burn . the little louse has burnt herself , the little flea is weeping , the little door is creaking , the little broom is sweeping , the little cart is running . the little tree said , then i will shake myself , and began to shake herself so that all her leaves fell off . a girl who came up with her water-pitcher saw that , and said , little tree , why are you shaking yourself . have i not reason to shake myself . the little louse has burnt herself , the little flea is weeping , the little door is creaking , the little broom is sweeping , the little cart is running , the little ash-heap is burning . at this the girl said , then i will break my little water-pitcher . and she broke her little water-pitcher . then said the little spring from which ran the water , girl , why are you breaking your water-pitcher . have i not reason to break my water-pitcher . the little louse has burnt herself , the little flea is weeping , the little door is creaking , the little broom is sweeping , the little cart is running , the little ash-heap is burning , the little tree is shaking itself . oh , ho , said the spring , then i will begin to flow , and began to flow violently . and in the water everything was drowned , the girl , the little tree , the little ash-heap , the little cart , the broom , the little door , the little flea , the little louse , all together .