in ancient times a giant was once traveling on a great highway , when suddenly an unknown man sprang up before him , and said , halt , not one step farther . what . cried the giant , a creature whom i can crush between my fingers , wants to block my way . who are you that you dare to speak so boldly . i am death , answered the other . no one resists me , and you also must obey my commands . but the giant refused , and began to struggle with death . it was a long , violent battle , in which at last the giant got the upper hand , and struck death down with his fist , so that he collapsed by a stone . the giant went his way , and death lay there conquered , and so weak that he could not get up again . what will be done now , said he , if i stay lying here in a corner . no one will die in the world , and it will get so full of people that they won't have room to stand beside each other . in the meantime a young man came along the road , who was strong and healthy , singing a song , and glancing around on every side . when he saw the half-fainting one , he went compassionately to him , raised him up , poured a strengthening draught out of his flask for him , and waited till he regained some strength . do you know , said the stranger , whilst he was getting up , who i am , and who it is whom you have helped on his legs again . no , answered the youth , i do not know you . i am death , said he , i spare no one , and can make no exception with you - but that you may see that i am grateful , i promise you that i will not fall on you unexpectedly , but will send my messengers to you before i come and take you away . well , said the youth , it is something gained that i shall know when you come , and at any rate be safe from you for so long . then he went on his way , and was light-hearted , and enjoyed himself , and lived without thought . but youth and health did not last long . soon came sicknesses and sorrows , which tormented him by day , and took away his rest by night . die , i shall not , said he to himself , for death will send his messengers before that , but i do wish these wretched days of sickness were over . as soon as he felt himself well again he began once more to live merrily . then one day someone tapped him on the shoulder . he looked round , and death stood behind him , and said , follow me , the hour of your departure from this world has come . what , replied the man , will you break your word . did you not promise me that you would send your messengers to me before coming yourself . i have seen none . silence , answered death . have i not sent one messenger to you after another . did not fever come and smite you , and shake you , and cast you down . has not dizziness bewildered your head . has not gout twitched you in all your limbs . did not your ears sing . did not tooth-ache bite into your cheeks . was it not dark before your eyes . and besides all that , has not my own brother sleep reminded you every night of me . did you not lie by night as if you were already dead . the man could make no answer , he yielded to his fate , and went away with death .