three hundred years before the birth of the lord christ , there lived a mother who had twelve sons , but was so poor and needy that she no longer knew how she was to keep them alive . she prayed to god daily that he would grant that all her sons might be on the earth with the redeemer who was promised . when her necessity became still greater she sent one of them after the other out into the world to seek their bread . the eldest was called peter , and he went out and had already walked a long way , a whole day's journey , when he came into a great forest . he sought for a way out , but could find none , and went farther and farther astray , and at the same time felt such great hunger that he could scarcely stand . at length he became so weak that he was forced to lie down , and he believed death to be at hand . suddenly there stood beside him a small boy who shone with brightness , and was as beautiful and kind as an angel . the child smote his little hands together , until peter was forced to look up and see him . then the child said , why are you sitting there in such trouble . alas . answered peter , i am going about the world seeking bread , that i may yet see the dear savior who is promised , that is my greatest desire . the child said , come with me , and your wish shall be fulfilled . he took poor peter by the hand , and led him between some cliffs to a great cavern . when they entered it , everything was shining with gold , silver , and crystal , and in the midst of it twelve cradles were standing side by side . then said the little angel , lie down in the first , and sleep a while , i will rock you . peter did so , and the angel sang to him and rocked him until he was alseep . and when he was asleep , the second brother came also , guided thither by his guardian angel , and he was rocked to sleep like the first , and thus came the others , one after the other , until all twelve lay there sleeping in the golden cradles . they slept , however , three hundred years , until the night when the savior of the world was born . then they awoke , and were with him on earth , and were called the twelve apostles .