there was once upon a time an old queen whose husband had been dead for many years , and she had a beautiful daughter . when the princess grew up she was betrothed to a prince who lived at a great distance . when the time came for her to be married , and she had to journey forth into the distant kingdom , the aged queen packed up for her many costly vessels of silver and gold , and trinkets also of gold and silver , and cups and jewels , in short , everything which appertained to a royal dowry , for she loved her child with all her heart . she likewise sent her maid-in-waiting , who was to ride with her , and hand her over to the bridegroom , and each had a horse for the journey , but the horse of the king's daughter was called falada , and could speak . so when the hour of parting had come , the aged mother went into her bedroom , took a small knife and cut her finger with it until it bled . then she held a white handkerchief to it into which she let three drops of blood fall , gave it to her daughter and said , dear child , preserve this carefully , it will be of service to you on your way . so they took a sorrowful leave of each other , the princess put the piece of cloth in her bosom , mounted her horse , and then went away to her bridegroom . after she had ridden for a while she felt a burning thirst , and said to her waiting-maid , dismount , and take my cup which you have brought with you for me , and get me some water from the stream , for i should like to drink . if you are thirsty , said the waiting-maid , get off your horse yourself , and lie down and drink out of the water , i don't choose to be your servant . so in her great thirst the princess alighted , bent down over the water in the stream and drank , and was not allowed to drink out of the golden cup . then she said , ah , heaven , and the three drops of blood answered , if this your mother knew , her heart would break in two . but the king's daughter was humble , said nothing , and mounted her horse again . she rode some miles further , but the day was warm , the sun scorched her , and she was thirsty once more , and when they came to a stream of water , she again cried to her waiting-maid , dismount , and give me some water in my golden cup , for she had long ago forgotten the girl's ill words . but the waiting-maid said still more haughtily , if you wish to drink , get it yourself , i don't choose to be your maid . then in her great thirst the king's daughter alighted , bent over the flowing stream , wept and said , ah , heaven , and the drops of blood again replied , if this your mother knew , her heart would break in two . and as she was thus drinking and leaning right over the stream , the handkerchief with the three drops of blood fell out of her bosom , and floated away with the water without her observing it , so great was her trouble . the waiting-maid , however , had seen it , and she rejoiced to think that she had now power over the bride , for since the princess had lost the drops of blood , she had become weak and powerless . so now when she wanted to mount her horse again , the one that was called falada , the waiting-maid said , falada is more suitable for me , and my nag will do for you , and the princess had to be content with that . then the waiting-maid , with many hard words , bade the princess exchange her royal apparel for her own shabby clothes , and at length she was compelled to swear by the clear sky above her , that she would not say one word of this to anyone at the royal court , and if she had not taken this oath she would have been killed on the spot . but falada saw all this , and observed it well . the waiting-maid now mounted falada , and the true bride the bad horse , and thus they traveled onwards , until at length they entered the royal palace . there were great rejoicings over her arrival , and the prince sprang forward to meet her , lifted the waiting-maid from her horse , and thought she was his consort . she was conducted upstairs , but the real princess was left standing below . then the old king looked out of the window and saw her standing in the courtyard , and noticed how dainty and delicate and beautiful she was , and instantly went to the royal apartment , and asked the bride about the girl she had with her who was standing down below in the courtyard , and who she was . i picked her up on my way for a companion , give the girl something to work at , that she may not stand idle . but the old king had no work for her , and knew of none , so he said , i have a little boy who tends the geese , she may help him . the boy was called conrad , and the true bride had to help him to tend the geese . soon afterwards the false bride said to the young king , dearest husband , i beg you to do me a favor . he answered , i will do so most willingly . then send for the knacker , and have the head of the horse on which i rode here cut off , for it vexed me on the way . in reality , she was afraid that the horse might tell how she had behaved to the king's daughter . then she succeeded in making the king promise that it should be done , and the faithful falada was to die , this came to the ears of the real princess , and she secretly promised to pay the knacker a piece of gold if he would perform a small service for her . there was a great dark-looking gateway in the town , through which morning and evening she had to pass with the geese , would he be so goood as to nail up falada's head on it , so that she might see him again , more than once . the knacker's man promised to do that , and cut off the head , and nailed it fast beneath the dark gateway . early in the morning , when she and conrad drove out their flock beneath this gateway , she said in passing , alas , falada , hanging there . then the head answered , alas , young queen , how ill you fare . if this your mother knew , her heart would break in two . then they went still further out of the town , and drove their geese into the country . and when they had come to the meadow , she sat down and unbound her hair which was like pure gold , and conrad saw it and delighted in its brightness , and wanted to pluck out a few hairs . then she said , blow , blow , thou gentle wind , i say , blow conrad's little hat away , and make him chase it here and there , until i have braided all my hair , and bound it up again . and there came such a violent wind that it blew conrad's hat far away across country , and he was forced to run after it . when he came back she had finished combing her hair and was putting it up again , and he could not get any of it . then conrad was angry , and would not speak to her , and thus they watched the geese until the evening , and then they went home . next day when they were driving the geese out through the dark gateway , the maiden said , alas , falada , hanging there . falada answered , alas , young queen , how ill you fare . if this your mother knew , her heart would break in two . and she sat down again in the field and began to comb out her hair , and conrad ran and tried to clutch it , so she said in haste , blow , blow , thou gentle wind , i say , blow conrad's little hat away , and make him chase it here and there , until i have braided all my hair , and bound it up again . then the wind blew , and blew his little hat off his head and far away , and conrad was forced to run after it , and when he came back , her hair had been put up a long time , and he could get none of it , and so they looked after their geese till evening came . but in the evening after they had got home , conrad went to the old king , and said , i won't tend the geese with that girl any longer . why not , inquired the aged king . oh , because she vexes me the whole day long . then the aged king commanded him to relate what it was that she did to him . and conrad said , in the morning when we pass beneath the dark gateway with the block , there is a horse's head on the wall , and she says to it , alas , falada , hanging there . and the head replies , alas , young queen how ill you fare . if this your mother knew , her heart would break in two . and conrad went on to relate what happened on the goose pasture , and how when there he had to chase his hat . the aged king commanded him to drive his block out again next day , and as soon as morning came , he placed himself behind the dark gateway , and heard how the maiden spoke to the head of falada , and then he too went into the country , and hid himself in the thicket in the meadow . there he soon saw with his own eyes the goose-girl and the goose-boy bringing their flock , and how after a while she sat down and unplaited her hair , which shone with radiance . and soon she said , blow , blow , thou gentle wind , i say , blow conrad's little hat away , and make him chase it here and there , until i have braided all my hair , and bound it up again . then came a blast of wind and carried off conrad's hat , so that he had to run far away , while the maiden quietly went on combing and plaiting her hair , all of which the king observed . then , quite unseen , he went away , and when the goose-girl came home in the evening , he called her aside , and asked why she did all these things . i may not tell that , and i dare not lament my sorrows to any human being , for i have sworn not to do so by the heaven which is above me , if i had not done that , i should have lost my life . he urged her and left her no peace , but he could draw nothing from her . then said he , if you will not tell me anything , tell your sorrows to the iron-stove there , and he went away . then she crept into the iron-stove , and began to weep and lament , and emptied her whole heart , and said , here am i deserted by the whole world , and yet i am a king's daughter , and a false waiting-maid has by force brought me to such a pass that i have been compelled to put off my royal apparel , and she has taken my place with my bridegroom , and i have to perform menial service as a goose-girl if this my mother knew , her heart would break in two . the aged king , however , was standing outside by the pipe of the stove , and was listening to what she said , and heard it . then he came back again , and bade her come out of the stove . and royal garments were placed on her , and it was marvellous how beautiful she was . the aged king summoned his son , and revealed to him that he had got the false bride who was only a waiting-maid , but that the true one was standing there , as the former goose-girl . the young king rejoiced with all his heart when he saw her beauty and youth , and a great feast was made ready to which all the people and all good friends were invited . at the head of the table sat the bridegroom with the king's daughter at one side of him , and the waiting-maid on the other , but the waiting-maid was blinded , and did not recognize the princess in her dazzling array . when they had eaten and drunk , and were merry , the aged king asked the waiting-maid as a riddle , what punishment a person deserved who had behaved in such and such a way to her master , and at the same time related the whole story , and asked what sentence such a person merited . then the false bride said , she deserves no better fate than to be stripped entirely naked , and put in a barrel which is studded inside with pointed nails , and two white horses should be harnessed to it , which will drag her along through one street after another , till she is dead . it is you , said the aged king , and you have pronounced your own sentence , and thus shall it be done unto you . and when the sentence had been carried out , the young king married his true bride , and both of them reigned over their kingdom in peace and happiness .