a poor wood-cutter lived with his wife and three daughters in a little hut on the edge of a lonely forest . one morning as he was about to go to his work , he said to his wife , let our eldest daughter bring me my dinner into the forest , or i shall never get my work done , and in order that she may not miss her way , he added , i will take a bag of millet with me and strew the seeds on the path . when , therefore , the sun was just above the centre of the forest , the girl set out on her way with a bowl of soup , but the field-sparrows , and wood-sparrows , larks and finches , blackbirds and siskins had picked up the millet long before , and the girl could not find the track . trusting to chance , she went on and on , until the sun sank and night began to fall . the trees rustled in the darkness , the owls hooted , and she began to be afraid . then in the distance she perceived a light which glimmered between the trees . there ought to be some people living there , who can take me in for the night , thought she , and went up to the light . it was not long before she came to a house the windows of which were all lighted up . she knocked , and a rough voice from inside cried , come in . the girl stepped into the dark entrance , and knocked at the door of the room . just come in , cried the voice , and when she opened the door , an old gray-haired man was sitting at the table , supporting his face with both hands , and his white beard fell down over the table almost as far as the ground . by the stove lay three animals , a hen , a cock , and a brindled cow . the girl told her story to the old man , and begged for shelter for the night . the man said , my pretty hen , my pretty cock , my pretty brindled cow , what are you saying now . duks , answered the animals , and that must have meant , we are willing , for the old man said , here you shall have shelter and food , go to the fire , and cook us our supper . the girl found in the kitchen abundance of everything , and cooked a good supper , but had no thought of the animals . she carried the full bowl to the table , seated herself by the gray-haired man , ate and satisfied her hunger . when she had had enough , she said , but now i am tired , where is there a bed in which i can lie down , and sleep . the animals replied , thou hast eaten with him , thou hast drunk with him , thou hast had no thought for us , so find out for thyself where thou canst pass the night . then said the old man , just go upstairs , and you will find a room with two beds , shake them up , and put white linen on them , and then i , too , will come and lie down to sleep . the girl went up , and when she had shaken the beds and put clean sheets on , she lay down in one of them without waiting any longer for the old man . after some time the gray-haired man came , held his candle over the girl and shook his head . when he saw that she had fallen into a sound sleep , he opened a trap-door , and let her down into the cellar . late at night , the wood-cutter came home , and reproached his wife for leaving him to hunger all day . it is not my fault , she replied , the girl went out with your dinner , and must have lost herself , but surely she will come back to-morrow . the wood-cutter , however , arose before dawn to go into the forest , and requested that the second daughter should take him his dinner that day . i will take a bag with lentils , said he , the seeds are larger than millet , the girl will see them better , and can't lose her way . at dinner-time , therefore , the girl took out the food , but the lentils had disappeared . the birds of the forest had picked them up as they had done the day before , and had left none . the girl wandered about in the forest until night , and then she too reached the house of the old man , was told to go in , and begged for food and a bed . the man with the white beard again asked the animals , my pretty hen , my pretty cock , my pretty brindled cow , what are you saying now . the animals again replied 'duks , and everything happened just as it had happened the day before . the girl cooked a good meal , ate and drank with the old man , and did not concern herself about the animals , and when she inquired about her bed they answered , thou hast eaten with him , thou hast drunk with him , thou hast had no thought for us , so find out for thyself where thou canst pass the night . when she was asleep the old man came , looked at her , shook his head , and let her down into the cellar . on the third morning the wood-cutter said to his wife , send our youngest child out with my dinner to-day , she has always been good and obedient , and will stay in the right path , and not rove about like her sisters , the wild bumble-bees . the mother did not want to do it , and said , am i to lose my dearest child , as well . have no fear , he replied , the girl will not go astray . she is too prudent and sensible . besides i will take some peas with me , strew them about . they are still larger than lentils , and will show her the way . but when the girl went out with her basket on her arm , the wood-pigeons had already got all the peas in their crops , and she did not know which way she was to turn . she was full of sorrow and never ceased to think how hungry her father would be , and how her good mother would grieve , if she did not go home . at length when it grew dark , she saw the light and came to the house in the forest . she begged quite prettily to be allowed to spend the night there , and the man with the white beard again asked his animals , my pretty hen , my pretty cock , my pretty brindled cow , what are you saying now . duks , said they . then the girl went to the stove where the animals were lying , and petted the cock and hen , and stroked their smooth feathers with her hand , and caressed the brindled cow between her horns , and when , in obedience to the old man's orders , she had made ready some good soup , and the bowl was placed upon the table , she said , am i to eat as much as i want , and the good animals to have nothing . outside is food in plenty , i will look after them first . so she went and brought some barley and stewed it for the cock and hen , and a whole armful of sweet-smelling hay for the cow . i hope you will like it , dear animals , said she , and you shall have a refreshing draught in case you are thirsty . then she fetched a bucketful of water , and the cock and hen jumped on to the edge of it and dipped their beaks in , and then held up their heads as the birds do when they drink , and the brindled cow also took a hearty draught . when the animals were fed , the girl seated herself at the table by the old man , and ate what he had left . it was not long before the cock and the hen began to thrust their heads beneath their wings , and the eyes of the cow likewise began to blink . then said the girl , ought we not to go to bed . my pretty hen , my pretty cock , my pretty brindled cow , what are you saying now . the animals answered , duks , thou hast eaten with us , thou hast drunk with us , thou hast had kind thought for all of us , we wish thee good-night . then the maiden went upstairs , shook the feather-beds , and laid clean sheets on them , and when she had done it the old man came and lay down in one of the beds , and his white beard reached down to his feet . the girl lay down on the other , said her prayers , and fell asleep . she slept quietly till midnight , and then there was such a noise in the house that she awoke . there was a sound of cracking and splitting in every corner , and the doors sprang open , and beat against the walls . the beams groaned as if they were being torn out of their joints , it seemed as if the staircase were falling down , and at length there was a crash as if the entire roof had fallen in . when , however , all grew quiet once more , and the girl was not hurt , she stayed quietly lying where she was , and fell asleep again . but when she woke up in the morning with the brilliancy of the sunshine , what did her eyes behold . she was lying in a vast hall , and everything around her shone with royal splendor . on the walls , golden flowers grew up on a ground of green silk , the bed was of ivory , and the canopy of red velvet , and on a chair close by , was a pair of slippers embroidered with pearls . the girl believed that she was in a dream , but three richly clad attendants came in , and asked what orders she would like to give . if you will go , she replied , i will get up at once and make ready some soup for the old man , and then i will feed the pretty hen , and the pretty cock , and the pretty brindled cow . she thought the old man was up already , and looked round at his bed . he , however , was not lying in it , but a stranger . and while she was looking at him , and becoming aware that he was young and handsome , he awoke , sat up in bed , and said , i am a king's son , and was bewitched by a wicked witch , and made to live in this forest , as an old gray-haired man . no one was allowed to be with me but my three attendants in the form of a cock , a hen , and a brindled cow . the spell was not to be broken until a girl came to us whose heart was so good that she showed herself full of love , not only towards mankind , but towards animals - and that you have done , and by you at midnight we were set free , and the old hut in the forest was changed back again into my royal palace . and when they had arisen , the king's son ordered the three attendants to set out and fetch the father and mother of the girl to the marriage feast . but where are my two sisters , inquired the maiden . i have locked them in the cellar , and to-morrow they shall be led into the forest , and shall live as servants to a charcoal-burner , until they have grown kinder , and do not leave poor animals to suffer hunger .