a sheep-dog had not a good master , but , on the contrary , one who let him suffer hunger . as he could stay no longer with him , he went quite sadly away . on the road he met a sparrow who said , brother dog , why are you so sad . the dog replied , i am hungry , and have nothing to eat . then said the sparrow , dear brother , come into the town with me , and i will satisy your hunger . so they went into the town together , and when they came in front of a butcher's shop the sparrow said to the dog , stay there , and i will pick a bit of meat down for you , and he alighted on the stall , looked about him to see that no one was observing him , and pecked and pulled and tore so long at a piece which lay on the edge , that it slipped down . then the dog seized it , ran into a corner , and devoured it . the sparrow said , now come with me to another shop , and then i will get you one more piece that you may be satisfied . when the dog had devoured the second piece as well , the sparrow asked , brother dog , have you now had enough . yes , i have had meat enough , he answered , but i have had no bread yet . said the sparrow , you shall have that also , come with me . then he took him to a baker's shop , and pecked at a couple of little buns till they rolled down , and as the dog wanted still more , he led him to another stall , and again got bread for him . when that was consumed , the sparrow said , brother dog , have you now had enough . yes , he replied , now we will walk awhile outside the town . then they both went out on to the highway . the weather was warm , however , and when they had walked a little way the dog said , i am tired , and would like to sleep . well , do sleep , answered the sparrow , and in the meantime i will seat myself on a branch . so the dog lay down on the road , and fell fast asleep . whilst he lay sleeping there , a waggoner came driving by , who had a cart with three horses , laden with two barrels of wine . the sparrow , however , saw that he was not going to turn aside , but was staying in the wheel track in which the dog was lying , so it cried , waggoner , don't do it , or i will make you poor . but the waggoner growled to himself , you will not make me poor , and cracked his whip and drove the cart over the dog , and the wheels killed him . then the sparrow cried , you have run over my brother dog and killed him , it shall cost you your cart and horses . cart and horses indeed , said the waggoner . what harm can you do me . and drove onwards . then the sparrow crept under the cover of the cart , and pecked so long at the same bung-hole that he got the bung out , and then all the wine ran out without the driver noticing it . but once when he was looking behind him he saw that the cart was dripping , and looked at the barrels and saw that one of them was empty . unfortunate fellow that am i , cried he . not unfortunate enough yet , said the sparrow , and flew on to the head of one of the horses and pecked his eyes out . when the driver saw that , he drew out his axe and wanted to hit the sparrow , but the sparrow flew into the air , and he hit his horse on the head and it fell down dead . oh , what an unfortunate man am i , cried he . not unfortunate enough yet , said the sparrow , and when the driver drove on with the two hoses , the sparrow again crept under the cover , and pecked the bung out of the second cask , so all the wine was spilt . when the driver became aware of it , he again cried , oh , what an unfortunate man am i . but the sparrow replied , not unfortunate enough yet , and seated himself on the head of the second horse , and pecked his eyes out . the driver ran up to it and raised his axe to strike , but the sparrow flew into the air and the blow struck the horse , which fell . oh , what an unfortunate man am i . not unfortunate enough yet , said the sparrow , and lighted on the third horse's head , and pecked out his eyes . the driver , in his rage , struck at the sparrow without looking round , and did not hit him but killed his third horse likewise . oh , what an unfortunate man am i , cried he . not unfortunate enough yet , answered the sparrow . now will i make you unfortunate in your home , and flew away . the driver had to leave the waggon standing , and full of anger and vexation went home . ah , said he to his wife , what misfortunes i have had . my wine has run out , and the horses are all three dead . alas , husband , she answered , what a malicious bird has come into the house . it has gathered together every bird there is in the world , and they have fallen on our corn up there , and are devouring it . then he went upstairs , and thousands and thousands of birds were sitting in the loft and had eaten up all the corn , and the sparrow was sitting in the midst of them . then the driver cried , oh , what an unfortunate man am i . not unfortunate enough yet , answered the sparrow , waggoner , it shall cost you your life as well , and flew out . then the waggoner had lost all his property , and he went downstairs into the room , sat down behind the stove and was quite furious and bitter . but the sparrow sat outside in front of the window , and cried , waggoner , it shall cost you your life . then the waggoner snatched the axe and threw it at the sparrow , but it only broke the window , and did not hit the bird . the sparrow now hopped in , placed itself on the stove and cried , waggoner , it shall cost you your life . the latter , quite mad and blind with rage , smote the stove in twain , and as the sparrow flew from one place to another so it fared with all his household furniture , looking-glass , benches , table , and at last the walls of his house , and yet he could not hit the bird . at length , however , he caught it with his hand . then his wife said , shall i kill it . no , cried he , that would be too merciful . it shall die much more cruelly . and he took it and swallowed it whole . the sparrow , however , began to flutter about in his body , and fluttered up again into the man's mouth , then it stretched out its head , and cried , waggoner , it shall still cost you your life . the driver gave the axe to his wife , and said , wife , kill the bird in my mouth for me . the woman struck , but missed her blow , and hit the waggoner square on his head , so that he fell dead . but the sparrow flew up and away .