there was once upon a time an old fox with nine tails , who believed that his wife was not faithful to him , and wished to put her to the test . he stretched himself out under the bench , did not move a limb , and behaved as if he were stone dead . mrs . fox went up to her room , shut herself in , and her maid , miss cat , sat by the fire , and did the cooking . when it became known that the old fox was dead , suitors presented themselves . the maid heard someone standing at the house-door , knocking . she went and opened it , and it was a young fox , who said , what may you be about , miss cat . do you sleep or do you wake . she answered , i am not sleeping , i am waking , would you know what i am making . i am boiling warm beer with butter , will you be my guest for supper . no , thank you , miss , said the fox , what is mrs . fox doing . the maid replied , she is sitting in her room , moaning in her gloom , weeping her little eyes quite red , because old mr . fox is dead . do just tell her , miss , that a young fox is here , who would like to woo her . certainly , young sir . the cat goes up the stairs trip , trap , the door she knocks at tap , tap , tap , mistress fox , are you inside . oh , yes , my little cat , she cried . a wooer he stands at the door out there . what does he look like , my dear . has he nine as beautiful tails as the late mr . fox . oh , no , answered the cat , he has only one . then i will not have him . miss cat went downstairs and sent the wooer away . soon afterwards there was another knock , and another fox was at the door who wished to woo mrs . fox . he had two tails , but he did not fare better than the first . after this still more came , each with one tail more than the other , but they were all turned away , until at last one came who had nine tails , like old mr . fox . when the widow heard that , she said joyfully to the cat , now open the gates and doors all wide , and carry old mr . fox outside . but just as the wedding was going to be solemnized , old mr . fox stirred under the bench , and cudgeled all the rabble , and drove them and mrs . fox out of the house . when old mr . fox was dead , the wolf came as a suitor , and knocked at the door , and the cat who was servant to mrs . fox , opened it for him . the wolf greeted her and said , good day , mrs . cat of kehrewit , how comes it that alone you sit . what are you making good . the cat replied , in milk i'm breaking bread so sweet , will you be my guest , and eat . no , thank you , mrs . cat , answered the wolf . is mrs . fox not at home . the cat said , she sits upstairs in her room , bewailing her sorrowful doom , bewailing her trouble so sore , for old mr . fox is no more . the wolf answered , if she's in want of a husband now , then will it please her to step below . the cat runs quickly up the stair , and lets her tail fly here and there , until she comes to the parlor door . with her five gold rings at the door she knocks , are you within , good mistress fox . if you're in want of a husband now , then will it please you to step below . mrs . fox asked , has the gentleman red stockings on , and has he a pointed mouth . no , answered the cat . then he won't do for me . when the wolf was gone , came a dog , a stag , a hare , a bear , a lion , and all the beasts of the forest , one after the other . but one of the good qualities which old mr . fox had possessed , was always lacking , and the cat had continually to send the suitors away . at length came a young fox . then mrs . fox said , has the gentleman red stockings on , and has he a little pointed mouth . yes , said the cat , he has . then let him come upstairs , said mrs . fox , and ordered the servant to prepare the wedding feast . sweep me the room as clean as you can , up with the window , fling out my old man . for many a fine fat mouse he brought , yet of his wife he never thought , but ate up every one he caught . then the wedding was solemnized with young mr . fox , and there was much rejoicing and dancing , and if they have not left off , they are dancing still .