a certain man had a donkey , which had carried the corn-sacks to the mill indefatigably for many a long year . but his strength was going , and he was growing more and more unfit for work . then his master began to consider how he might best save his keep . but the donkey , seeing that no good wind was blowing , ran away and set out on the road to bremen . there , he thought , i can surely be a town-musician . when he had walked some distance , he found a hound lying on the road , gasping like one who had run till he was tired . what are you gasping so for , you big fellow , asked the donkey . ah , replied the hound , as i am old , and daily grow weaker , and no longer can hunt , my master wanted to kill me , so i took to flight , but now how am i to earn my bread . i tell you what , said the donkey , i am going to bremen , and shall be town-musician there . go with me and engage yourself also as a musician . i will play the lute , and you shall beat the kettle-drum . the hound agreed , and on they went . before long they came to a cat , sitting on the path , with a face like three rainy days . now then , old shaver , what has gone askew with you , asked the donkey . who can be merry when his neck is in danger , answered the cat . because i am now getting old , and my teeth are worn to stumps , and i prefer to sit by the fire and spin , rather than hunt about after mice , my mistress wanted to drown me , so i ran away . but now good advice is scarce . where am i to go . go with us to bremen . you understand night-music , you can be a town-musician . the cat thought well of it , and went with them . after this the three fugitives came to a farm-yard , where the cock was sitting upon the gate , crowing with all his might . your crow goes through and through one , said the donkey . what is the matter . i have been foretelling fine weather , because it is the day on which our lady washes the christ-child's little shirts , and wants to dry them , said the cock . but guests are coming for sunday , so the housewife has no pity , and has told the cook that she intends to eat me in the soup to-morrow , and this evening i am to have my head cut off . now i am crowing at the top of my lungs while still i can . ah , but red-comb , said the donkey , you had better come away with us . we are going to bremen . you can find something better than death everywhere . you have a good voice , and if we make music together it must have some quality . the cock agreed to this plan , and all four went on together . they could not reach the city of bremen in one day , however , and in the evening they came to a forest where they meant to pass the night . the donkey and the hound laid themselves down under a large tree , the cat and the cock settled themselves in the branches . but the cock flew right to the top , where he was most safe . before he went to sleep he looked round on all four sides , and thought he saw in the distance a little spark burning . so he called out to his companions that there must be a house not far off , for he saw a light . the donkey said , if so , we had better get up and go on , for the shelter here is bad . the hound thought too that a few bones with some meat on would do him good . so they made their way to the place where the light was , and soon saw it shine brighter and grow larger , until they came to a well-lighted robbers , house . the donkey , as the biggest , went to the window and looked in . what do you see , my grey-horse , asked the cock . what do i see , answered the donkey . a table covered with good things to eat and drink , and robbers sitting at it enjoying themselves . that would be the sort of thing for us , said the cock . yes , yes . ah , if only we were there , said the donkey . then the animals took counsel together how they should manage to drive away the robbers , and at last they thought of a plan . the donkey was to place himself with his fore-feet upon the window-ledge , the hound was to jump on the donkey's back , the cat was to climb upon the dog , and lastly the cock was to fly up and perch upon the head of the cat . when this was done , at a given signal , they began to perform their music together . the donkey brayed , the hound barked , the cat mewed , and the cock crowed . then they burst through the window into the room , shattering the glass . at this horrible din , the robbers sprang up , thinking no otherwise than that a ghost had come in , and fled in a great fright out into the forest . the four companions now sat down at the table , well content with what was left , and ate as if they were going to fast for a month . as soon as the four minstrels had done , they put out the light , and each sought for himself a sleeping-place according to his nature and what suited him . the donkey laid himself down upon some straw in the yard , the hound behind the door , the cat upon the hearth near the warm ashes , and the cock perched himself upon a beam of the roof . and being tired from their long walk , they soon went to sleep . when it was past midnight , and the robbers saw from afar that the light was no longer burning in their house , and all appeared quiet , the captain said , we ought not to have let ourselves be frightened out of our wits , and ordered one of them to go and examine the house . the messenger finding all still , went into the kitchen to light a candle , and , taking the glistening fiery eyes of the cat for live coals , he held a lucifer-match to them to light it . but the cat did not understand the joke , and flew in his face , spitting and scratching . he was dreadfully frightened , and ran to the back-door , but the dog , who lay there sprang up and bit his leg . and as he ran across the yard by the dunghill , the donkey gave him a smart kick with its hind foot . the cock , too , who had been awakened by the noise , and had become lively , cried down from the beam , cock-a-doodle-doo . then the robber ran back as fast as he could to his captain , and said , ah , there is a horrible witch sitting in the house , who spat on me and scratched my face with her long claws . and by the door stands a man with a knife , who stabbed me in the leg . and in the yard there lies a black monster , who beat me with a wooden club . and above , upon the roof , sits the judge , who called out , bring the rogue here to me . so i got away as well as i could . after this the robbers never again dared enter the house . but it suited the four musicians of bremen so well that they did not care to leave it any more . and the mouth of him who last told this story is still warm .