a certain cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse , and had said so much to her about the great love and friendship she felt for her , that at length the mouse agreed that they should live and keep house together . but we must make a provision for winter , or else we shall suffer from hunger , said the cat , and you , little mouse , cannot venture everywhere , or you will be caught in a trap some day . the good advice was followed , and a pot of fat was bought , but they did not know where to put it . at length , after much consideration , the cat said , i know no place where it will be better stored up than in the church , for no one dares take anything away from there . we will set it beneath the altar , and not touch it until we are really in need of it . so the pot was placed in safety , but it was not long before the cat had a great yearning for it , and said to the mouse , i want to tell you something , little mouse , my cousin has brought a little son into the world , and has asked me to be godmother , he is white with brown spots , and i am to hold him over the font at the christening . let me go out to-day , and you look after the house by yourself . yes , yes , answered the mouse , by all means go , and if you get anything very good to eat , think of me , i should like a drop of sweet red christening wine myself . all this , however , was untrue , the cat had no cousin , and had not been asked to be godmother . she went straight to the church , stole to the pot of fat , began to lick at it , and licked the top of the fat off . then she took a walk upon the roofs of the town , looked out for opportunities , and then stretched herself in the sun , and licked her lips whenever she thought of the pot of fat , and not until it was evening did she return home . well , here you are again , said the mouse , no doubt you have had a merry day . all went off well , answered the cat . what name did they give the child . top off , said the cat quite coolly . top off , cried the mouse , that is a very odd and uncommon name , is it a usual one in your family . what does that matter , said the cat , it is no worse than crumb-stealer , as your god-children are called . before long the cat was seized by another fit of yearning . she said to the mouse , you must do me a favor , and once more manage the house for a day alone . i am again asked to be godmother , and , as the child has a white ring round its neck , i cannot refuse . the good mouse consented , but the cat crept behind the town walls to the church , and devoured half the pot of fat . nothing ever seems so good as what one keeps to oneself , said she , and was quite satisfied with her day's work . when she went home the mouse inquired , and what was this child christened . half-done , answered the cat . half-done . what are you saying . i never heard the name in my life , i'll wager anything it is not in the calendar . the cat's mouth soon began to water for some more licking . all good things go in threes , said she , i am asked to stand godmother again . the child is quite black , only it has white paws , but with that exception , it has not a single white hair on its whole body , this only happens once every few years , you will let me go , won't you . top-off . half-done , answered the mouse , they are such odd names , they make me very thoughtful . you sit at home , said the cat , in your dark-grey fur coat and long tail , and are filled with fancies , that's because you do not go out in the daytime . during the cat's absence the mouse cleaned the house , and put it in order but the greedy cat entirely emptied the pot of fat . when everything is eaten up one has some peace , said she to herself , and well filled and fat she did not return home till night . the mouse at once asked what name had been given to the third child . it will not please you more than the others , said the cat . he is called all-gone . all-gone , cried the mouse , that is the most suspicious name of all . i have never seen it in print . all-gone , what can that mean , and she shook her head , curled herself up , and lay down to sleep . from this time forth no one invited the cat to be godmother , but when the winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside , the mouse thought of their provision , and said , come cat , we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored up for ourselves - we shall enjoy that . yes , answered the cat , you will enjoy it as much as you would enjoy sticking that dainty tongue of yours out of the window . they set out on their way , but when they arrived , the pot of fat certainly was still in its place , but it was empty . alas , said the mouse , now i see what has happened , now it comes to light . you are a true friend . you have devoured all when you were standing godmother . first top off then half done , then - . will you hold your tongue , cried the cat , one word more and i will eat you too . all gone was already on the poor mouse's lips , scarcely had she spoken it before the cat sprang on her , seized her , and swallowed her down . verily , that is the way of the world .