there was once a king's son who went out into the world , and he was full of thought and sad . he looked at the sky , which was so beautifully pure and blue , then he sighed , and said , how well must all be with one up there in heaven . then he saw a poor gray-haired man who was coming along the road towards him , and he spoke to him , and asked , how can i get to heaven . the man answered , by poverty and humility . put on my ragged clothes , wander about the world for seven years , and get to know what misery is , take no money , but if you are hungry ask compassionate hearts for a bit of bread . in this way you will reach heaven . then the king's son took off his magnificent coat , and wore in its place the beggar's garment , went out into the wide world , and suffered great misery . he took nothing but a little food , said nothing , but prayed to the lord to take him into his heaven . when the seven years were over , he returned to his father's palace , but no one recognized him . he said to the servants , go and tell my parents that i have come back again . but the servants did not believe it , and laughed and left him standing there . then said he , go and tell it to my brothers that they may come down , for i should so like to see them again . the servants would not do that either , but at last one of them went , and told it to the king's children , but these did not believe it , and did not trouble themselves about it . then he wrote a letter to his mother , and described to her all his misery , but he did not say that he was her son . so out of pity , the queen had a place under the stairs assigned to him , and food taken to him daily by two servants . but one of them was ill-natured and said , why should the beggar have the good food , and kept it for himself , or gave it to the dogs , and took the weak , emaciated beggar nothing but water . the other , however , was honest , and took the beggar what was sent to him . it was little , but he could live on it for a while , and all the time he was quite patient , but he grew continually weaker . as his illness increased , he desired to receive the last sacrament . when the mass was being celebrated , all the bells in the town and neighborhood began to ring of their own accord . after mass the priest went to the poor man under the stairs , and there he lay dead . in one hand he had a rose , in the other a lily , and beside him was a paper on which was written his history . when he was buried , a rose grew on one side of his grave , and a lily on the other .