east india was besieged by an enemy who would not retire until he had received six hundred dollars . then the townsfolk caused it to be proclaimed by beat of drum that whosoever was able to procure the money should be burgomaster . now there was a poor fisherman who fished on the sea with his son , and the enemy came and took the son prisoner , and gave the father six hundred dollars for him . so the father went and gave them to the great men of the town , and the enemy departed , and the fisherman became burgomaster . then it was proclaimed that whosoever did not say 'mr . burgomaster , should be put to death on the gallows . the son got away again from the enemy , and came to a great forest on a high mountain . the mountain opened , and he went into a great enchanted castle , wherein chairs , tables , and benches were all hung with black . then came three young princesses who were dressed entirely in black , but had a little white on their faces . they told him he was not to be afraid , they would not hurt him , and that he could rescue them . he said he would gladly do that , if he did but know how . at this , they told him he must for a whole year not speak to them and also not look at them , and what he wanted to have he was just to ask for , and if they dared give him an answer they would do so . when he had been there for a long while he said he should like to go to his father , and they told him he might go . he was to take with him this purse with money , put on this coat , and in a week he must be back there again . then he was lifted up , and was instantly in east india . he could no longer find his father in the fisherman's hut , and asked the people where the poor fisherman could be , and they told him he must not say that , or he would come to the gallows . then he went to his father and said , fisherman , how have you got here . then the father said , you must not say that , if the great men of the town knew of that , you would come to the gallows . he , however , would not give in , and was brought to the gallows . when he was there , he said , o , my masters , just give me leave to go to the old fisherman's hut . then he put on his old smock , and came back to the great men , and said , do you not now see . am i not the son of the poor fisherman . did i not earn bread for my father and mother in this dress . hereupon his father knew him again , and begged his pardon , and took him home with him , and then related all that had happened to him , and how he had got into a forest on a high mountain , and the mountain had opened and he had gone into an enchanted castle , where all was black , and three young princesses had come to him who were black except a little white on their faces . and they had told him not to fear , and that he could rescue them . then his mother said that might very likely not be a good thing to do , and that he ought to take a blessed candle with him , and drop some boiling wax on their faces . he went back again , and he was in great fear , and he dropped the wax on their faces as they were sleeping , and they all turned half-white . then all the three princesses sprang up , and said , you accursed dog , our blood shall cry for vengeance on you . now there is no man born in the world , nor will any ever be born who can set us free . we have still three brothers who are bound by seven chains - they shall tear you to pieces . then there was a loud shrieking all over the castle , and he sprang out of the window , and broke his leg , and the castle sank into the earth again , the mountain closed again , and no one knew where the castle had stood .