a shoemaker , by no fault of his own , had become so poor that at last he had nothing left but leather for one pair of shoes . so in the evening , he cut out the shoes which he wished to begin to make the next morning , and as he had a good conscience , he lay down quietly in his bed , commended himself to god , and fell asleep . in the morning , after he had said his prayers , and was just going to sit down to work , the two shoes stood quite finished on his table . he was astounded , and knew not what to think . he took the shoes in his hands to observe them closer , and they were so neatly made , with not one bad stitch in them , that it was just as if they were intended as a masterpiece . before long , a buyer came in , and as the shoes pleased him so well , he paid more for them than was customary , and , with the money , the shoemaker was able to purchase leather for two pairs of shoes . he cut them out at night , and next morning was about to set to work with fresh courage , but he had no need to do so for , when he got up , they were already made , and buyers also were not wanting , who gave him money enough to buy leather for four pairs of shoes . again the following morning he found the pairs made , and so it went on constantly , what he cut out in the evening was finished by the morning , so that he soon had his honest independence again , and at last became a wealthy man . now it befell that one evening not long before christmas , when the man had been cutting out , he said to his wife , before going to bed , what think you if we were to stay up to-night to see who it is that lends us this helping hand . the woman liked the idea , and lighted a candle , and then they hid themselves in a corner of the room , behind some clothes which were hanging up there , and watched . when it was midnight , two pretty little naked men came , sat down by the shoemaker's table , took all the work which was cut out before them and began to stitch , and sew , and hammer so skilfully and so quickly with their little fingers that the shoemaker could not avert his eyes for astonishment . they did not stop until all was done , and stood finished on the table , and they ran quickly away . next morning the woman said , the little men have made us rich , and we really must show that we are grateful for it . they run about so , and have nothing on , and must be cold . i'll tell you what i'll do , i will make them little shirts , and coats , and vests , and trousers , and knit both of them a pair of stockings , and you make them two little pairs of shoes . the man said , i shall be very glad to do it . and one night , when everything was ready , they laid their presents all together on the table instead of the cut-out work , and then concealed themselves to see how the little men would behave . at midnight they came bounding in , and wanted to get to work at once , but as they did not find any leather cut out , but only the pretty little articles of clothing , they were at first astonished , and then they showed intense delight . they dressed themselves with the greatest rapidity , put on the beautiful clothes , and sang , now we are boys so fine to see , why should we longer cobblers be . then they danced and skipped and leapt over chairs and benches . at last they danced out of doors . from that time forth they came no more , but as long as the shoemaker lived all went well with him , and all his efforts prospered .