there was once a woman who had three daughters , the eldest of whom was called one-eye , because she had only one eye in the middle of her forehead , and the second , two-eyes , because she had two eyes like other folks , and the youngest , three-eyes , because she had three eyes , and her third eye was also in the center of her forehead . however , as two-eyes saw just as other human beings did , her sisters and her mother could not endure her . they said to her , " you , with your two eyes , are no better than the common people , you do not belong to us . " they pushed her about , and threw old clothes to her , and gave her nothing to eat but what they left , and did everything that they could to make her unhappy . it came to pass that two-eyes had to go out into the fields and tend the goat , but she was still quite hungry , because her sisters had given her so little to eat . so she sat down on a ridge and began to weep , and so bitterly that two streams ran down from her eyes . and once when she looked up in her grief , a woman was standing beside her , who said , " why are you weeping , little two-eyes ? " two-eyes answered , " have i not reason to weep , when i have two eyes like other people , and my sisters and mother hate me for it , and push me from one corner to another , throw old clothes to me , and give me nothing to eat but the scraps they leave . today they have given me so little that i am still quite hungry . " then the wise woman said , " wipe away your tears , two-eyes , and i will tell you something to stop your ever suffering from hunger again . just say to your goat - `bleat , my little goat , bleat , cover the table with something to eat , ' and then a clean well-spread little table will stand before you with the most delicious food upon it of which you may eat as much as you are inclined for , and when you have had enough , and have no more need of the little table , just say , `bleat , bleat , my little goat , i pray , and take the table quite away , ' and then it will vanish again from your sight . " hereupon the wise woman departed . but two-eyes thought , " i must instantly make a trial , and see if what she said is true , for i am far too hungry , " and she said - " bleat , my little goat , bleat , cover the table with something to eat , " and scarcely had she spoken the words than a little table , covered with a white cloth , was standing there , and on it was a plate with a knife and fork , and a silver spoon , and the most delicious food was there also , warm and smoking as if it had just come out of the kitchen . then two-eyes said the shortest prayer she knew , " lord god , be our guest forever , amen , " and helped herself to some food , and enjoyed it . and when she was satisfied , she said , as the wise woman had taught her - " bleat , bleat , my little goat , i pray , and take the table quite away , " and immediately the little table and everything on it was gone again . that is a delightful way of keeping house , thought two-eyes , and was quite glad and happy . in the evening , when she went home with her goat , she found a small earthenware dish with some food , which her sisters had set ready for her , but she did not touch it . next day she again went out with her goat , and left the few bits of broken bread which had been handed to her , lying untouched . the first and second time that she did this , her sisters did not notice it at all , but as it happened every time , they did observe it , and said , " there is something wrong about two-eyes , she always leaves her food untasted , and she used to eat up everything that was given her , she must have discovered other ways of getting food . " in order that they might learn the truth , they resolved to send one-eye with two-eyes when she went to drive her goat to the pasture , to observe what two-eyes did when she was there , and whether anyone brought her anything to eat and drink . so when two-eyes set out the next time , one-eye went to her and said , " i will go with you to the pasture , and see that the goat is well taken care of , and driven where there is food . " but two-eyes knew what was in one-eye's mind , and drove the goat into high grass and said , " come , one-eye , we will sit down , and i will sing something to you . " one-eye sat down and was tired with the unaccustomed walk and the heat of the sun , and two-eyes sang constantly - " one-eye , are you waking ? one-eye , are you sleeping ? " until one-eye shut her one eye , and fell asleep , and as soon as two-eyes saw that one-eye was fast asleep , and could discover nothing , she said , " bleat , my little goat , bleat , cover the table with something to eat , " and seated herself at her table , and ate and drank until she was satisfied , and then she again cried - " bleat , bleat , my little goat , i pray , and take the table quite away , " and in an instant all had vanished . two-eyes now awakened one-eye , and said , " one-eye , you want to take care of the goat , and go to sleep while you are doing it , but in the meantime the goat might run all over the world . come , let us go home again . " so they went home , and again two-eyes let her dish stand untouched , and one-eye could not tell her mother why she would not eat it , and to excuse herself said , " i fell asleep when i was out . " next day the mother said to three-eyes , this time you shall go and observe if two-eyes eats anything when she is out , and if anyone fetches her food and drink , for she must eat and drink in secret . so three-eyes went to two-eyes , and said , " i will go with you and see if the goat is taken proper care of , and driven where there is food . " but two-eyes knew what was in three-eyes' mind , and drove the goat into high grass and said , " we will sit down , and i will sing something to you , three-eyes . " three-eyes sat down and was tired with the walk and with the heat of the sun , and two-eyes began the same song as before , and sang - " three-eyes , are you waking ? " but then , instead of singing - " three-eyes , are you sleeping ? " as she ought to have done , she thoughtlessly sang - " two-eyes , are you sleeping ? " and sang all the time - " three-eyes , are you waking ? two-eyes , are you sleeping ? " then two of the eyes which three-eyes had , shut and fell asleep , but the third , as it had not been named in the song , did not sleep . it is true that three-eyes shut it , but only in her cunning , to pretend it was asleep too , but it blinked , and could see everything very well . and when two-eyes thought that three-eyes was fast asleep , she used her little charm - " bleat , my little goat , bleat , cover the table with something to eat , " and ate and drank as much as her heart desired , and then ordered the table to go away again , " bleat , bleat , my little goat , i pray , and take the table quite away , " and three-eyes had seen everything . then two-eyes came to her , waked her and said , " have you been asleep , three-eyes ? you keep watch very well . come , we will go home . " and when they got home , two-eyes again did not eat , and three-eyes said to the mother , " now , i know why that haughty thing there does not eat . when she is out , she says to the goat - `bleat , my little goat , bleat , cover the table with something to eat , ' and then a little table appears before her covered with the best of food , much better than any we have here , and when she has eaten all she wants , she says - `bleat , bleat , my little goat , i pray , and take the table quite away , ' and all disappears . i watched everything closely . she put two of my eyes to sleep by means of a charm , but luckily the one in my forehead kept awake . " then the envious mother cried , " do you want to fare better than we do ? the desire shall pass from you , " and she fetched a butcher's knife , and thrust it into the heart of the goat , which fell down dead . when two-eyes saw that , she went out full of sadness , seated herself on the ridge of grass at the edge of the field , and wept bitter tears . suddenly the wise woman once more stood by her side , and said , " two-eyes , why are you weeping ? " " have i not reason to weep ? " she answered . " the goat which covered the table for me every day when i spoke your charm , has been killed by my mother , and now i shall again have to bear hunger and want . " the wise woman said , " two-eyes , i will give you a piece of good advice , ask your sisters to give you the entrails of the slaughtered goat , and bury them in the ground in front of the house , and your fortune will be made . " then she vanished , and two-eyes went home and said to her sisters , " dear sisters , do give me some part of my goat , i don't wish for what is good , but give me the entrails . " then they laughed and said , " if that's all you want , you can have it . " so two-eyes took the entrails and buried them quietly in the evening , in front of the house-door , as the wise woman had counseled her to do . next morning , when they all awoke , and went to the house-door , there stood a strangely magnificent tree with leaves of silver , and fruit of gold hanging among them , so that in all the wide world there was nothing more beautiful or precious . they did not know how the tree could have come there during the night , but two-eyes saw that it had grown up out of the entrails of the goat , for it was standing on the exact spot where she had buried them . then the mother said to one-eye , " climb up , my child , and gather some of the fruit of the tree for us . " one-eye climbed up , but when she was about to get hold of one of the golden apples , the branch escaped from her hands , and that happened each time , so that she could not pluck a single apple , let her do what she might . then said the mother , " three-eyes , you climb up , you with your three eyes can look about you better than one-eye . " one-eye slipped down , and three-eyes climbed up . three-eyes was not more skillful , and might try as she would , but the golden apples always escaped her . at length the mother grew impatient , and climbed up herself , but could get hold of the fruit no better than one-eye and three-eyes , for she always clutched empty air . then said two-eyes , " let me go up , perhaps i may succeed better . " the sisters cried , " you indeed , with your two eyes , what can you do ? " but two-eyes climbed up , and the golden apples did not avoid her , but came into her hand of their own accord , so that she could pluck them one after the other , and brought a whole apronful down with her . the mother took them away from her , and instead of treating poor two-eyes any better for this , she and one-eye and three-eyes were only envious , because two-eyes alone had been able to get the fruit , and they treated her still more cruelly . it so befell that once when they were all standing together by the tree , a young knight came up . " quick , two-eyes , " cried the two sisters , " creep under this , and don't disgrace us , " and with all speed they turned an empty barrel which was standing close by the tree over poor two-eyes , and they swept the golden apples which she had been gathering , under it too . when the knight came nearer he was a handsome lord , who stopped and admired the magnificent gold and silver tree , and said to the two sisters , " to whom does this fine tree belong ? anyone who would bestow one branch of it on me might in return for it ask whatsoever he desired . " then one-eye and three-eyes replied that the tree belonged to them , and that they would give him a branch . they both took great trouble , but they were not able to do it , for the branches and fruit both moved away from them every time . then said the knight , " it is very strange that the tree should belong to you , and that you should not have the power to break a piece off . " they again asserted that the tree was their property . whilst they were saying so , two-eyes rolled out a couple of golden apples from under the barrel to the feet of the knight , for she was vexed with one-eye and three-eyes , for not speaking the truth . when the knight saw the apples he was astonished , and asked where they came from . one-eye and three-eyes answered that they had another sister , who was not allowed to show herself , for she had only two eyes like any common person . the knight , however , desired to see her , and cried , " two-eyes , come forth . " then two-eyes , quite comforted , came from beneath the barrel , and the knight was surprised at her great beauty , and said , " you , two-eyes , can certainly break off a branch from the tree for me . " " yes , " replied two-eyes , " that i certainly shall be able to do , for the tree belongs to me . " and she climbed up , and with the greatest ease broke off a branch with beautiful silver leaves and golden fruit , and gave it to the knight . then said the knight , " two-eyes , what shall i give you for it ? " " alas , answered two-eyes , " i suffer from hunger and thirst , grief and want , from early morning till late night . if you would take me with you , and rescue me , i should be happy . " so the knight lifted two-eyes on to his horse , and took her home with him to his father's castle , and there he gave her beautiful clothes , and meat and drink to her heart's content , and as he loved her so much he married her , and the wedding was solemnized with great rejoicing . when two-eyes was thus carried away by the handsome knight , her two sisters grudged her good fortune in downright earnest . " the wonderful tree , however , still remains with us , " thought they , " and even if we can gather no fruit from it , still every one will stand still and look at it , and come to us and admire it . who knows what good things may be in store for us . " but next morning , the tree had vanished , and all their hopes were at an end . and when two-eyes looked out of the window of her own room , to her great delight it was standing in front of it , and so it had followed her . two-eyes lived a long time in happiness . once two poor women came to her in her castle , and begged for alms . she looked in their faces , and recognized her sisters , one-eye , and three-eyes , who had fallen into such poverty that they had to wander about and beg their bread from door to door . two-eyes , however , made them welcome , and was kind to them , and took care of them , so that they both with all their hearts repented the evil that they had done their sister in their youth .