this story , my dear young folks , seems to be false , but it really is true , for my grandfather , from whom i have it , used always , when relating it , to say , it must be true , my son , or else no one could tell it to you . the story is as follows . one sunday morning about harvest time , just as the buckwheat was in bloom , the sun was shining brightly in heaven , the east wind was blowing warmly over the stubble-fields , the larks were singing in the air , the bees buzzing among the buckwheat , the people in their sunday clothes were all going to church , and all creatures were happy , and the hedgehog was happy too . the hedgehog , however , was standing by his door with his arms akimbo , enjoying the morning breezes , and slowly trilling a little song to himself , which was neither better nor worse than the songs which hedgehogs are in the habit of singing on a blessed sunday morning . whilst he was thus singing half aloud to himself , it suddenly occurred to him that , while his wife was washing and drying the children , he might very well take a walk into the field , and see how his turnips were getting on . the turnips , in fact , were close beside his house , and he and his family were accustomed to eat them , for which reason he looked upon them as his own . no sooner said than done . the hedgehog shut the house-door behind him , and took the path to the field . he had not gone very far from home , and was just turning round the sloe-bush which stands there outside the field , to go up into the turnip-field , when he observed the hare who had gone out on business of the same kind , namely , to visit his cabbages . when the hedgehog caught sight of the hare , he bade him a friendly good morning . but the hare , who was in his own way a distinguished gentleman , and frightfully haughty , did not return the hedgehog's greeting , but said to him , assuming at the same time a very contemptuous manner , how do you happen to be running about here in the field so early in the morning . i am taking a walk , said the hedgehog . a walk , said the hare , with a smile . it seems to me that you might use your legs for a better purpose . this answer made the hedgehog furiously angry , for he can bear anything but a reference too his legs , just because they are crooked by nature . so now the hedgehog said to the hare , you seem to imagine that you can do more with your legs than i with mine . that is just what i do think , said the hare . that can be put to the test , said the hedgehog . i wager that if we run a race , i will outstrip you . that is ridiculous . you with your short legs , said the hare , but for my part i am willing , if you have such a monstrous fancy for it . what shall we wager . a golden louis-d'or and a bottle of brandy , said the hedgehog . done , said the hare . shake hands on it , and then we may as well begin at once . nay , said the hedgehog , there is no such great hurry . i am still fasting , i will go home first , and have a little breakfast . in half-an-hour i will be back again at this place . hereupon the hedgehog departed , for the hare was quite satisfied with this . on his way the hedgehog thought to himself , the hare relies on his long legs , but i will contrive to get the better of him . he may be a great man , but he is a very silly fellow , and he shall pay for what he has said . so when the hedgehog reached home , he said to his wife , wife , dress yourself quickly , you must go out to the field with me . what is going on , then , said his wife . i have made a wager with the hare , for a gold louis-d'or and a bottle of brandy . i am to run a race with him , and you must be present . good heavens , husband , the wife now cried , are you not right in your mind , have you completely lost your wits . what can make you want to run a race with the hare . hold your tongue , woman , said the hedgehog , that is my affair . don't begin to discuss things which are matters for men . be off , dress yourself , and come with me . what could the hedgehog's wife do . she was forced to obey him , whether she liked it or not . so when they had set out on their way together , the hedgehog said to his wife , now pay attention to what i am going to say . look you , i will make the long field our race-course . the hare shall run in one furrow , and when the hare arrives at the end of the furrow on the other side of you , you must cry out to him , i am here already . then they reached the field , and the hedgehog showed his wife her place , and then walked up the field . when he reached the top , the hare was already there . shall we start , said the hare . certainly , said the hedgehog . then both at once . so saying , each placed himself in his own furrow . the hare counted , once , twice , thrice , and away , and went off like a whirlwind down the field . the hedgehog , however , only ran about three paces , and then he crouched down in the furrow , and stayed quietly where he was . when the hare therefore arrived at full speed at the lower end of the field , the hedgehog's wife met him with the cry , i am here already . the hare was shocked and wondered not a little , he thought no other than that it was the hedgehog himself who was calling to him , for the hedgehog's wife looked just like her husband . the hare , however , thought to himself , that has not been done fairly , and cried , it must be run again , let us have it again . and once more he went off like the wind in a storm , so that he seemed to fly . but the hedgehog's wife stayed quietly in her place . so when the hare reached the top of the field , the hedgehog himself cried out to him , i am here already . the hare , however , quite beside himself with anger , cried , it must be run again , we must have it again . all right , answered the hedgehog , for my part we'll run as often as you choose . so the hare ran seventy-three times more , and the hedgehog always held out against him , and every time the hare reached either the top or the bottom , either the hedgehog or his wife said , i am here already . at the seventy-fourth time , however , the hare could no longer reach the end . in the middle of the field he fell to the ground , blood streamed out of his mouth , and he lay dead on the spot . but the hedgehog took the louis-d'or which he had won and the bottle of brandy , called his wife out of the furrow , and both went home together in great delight , and if they are not dead , they are living there still . this is how it happened that the hedgehog made the hare run races with him on the heath of buxtehude - buxtehude is a village near hamburg - till he died , and since that time no hare has ever had any fancy for running races with a buxtehude hedgehog . the moral of this story is , firstly , that no one , however great he may be , should permit himself to jest at any one beneath him , even if he be only a hedgehog . and , secondly , it teaches , that when a man marries , he should take a wife in his own position , who looks just as he himself looks . so whosoever is a hedgehog let him see to it that his wife is a hedgehog also , and so forth .