once upon a time , a certain king was hunting in a great forest , and he chased a wild beast so eagerly that none of his attendants could follow him . when evening drew near he stopped and looked around him , and then he saw that he had lost his way . he sought a way out , but could find none . then he perceived an aged woman with a head which nodded perpetually , who came towards him , but she was a witch . good woman , said he to her , can you not show me the way through the forest . oh , yes , lord king , she answered , that i certainly can , but on one condition , and if you do not fulfil that , you will never get out of the forest , and will die of hunger in it . what kind of condition is it , asked the king . i have a daughter , said the old woman , who is as beautiful as anyone in the world , and well deserves to be your consort , and if you will make her your queen , i will show you the way out of the forest . in the anguish of his heart the king consented , and the old woman led him to her little hut , where her daughter was sitting by the fire . she received the king as if she had been expecting him , and he saw that she was very beautiful , but still she did not please him , and he could not look at her without secret horror . after he had taken the maiden up on his horse , the old woman showed him the way , and the king reached his royal palace again , where the wedding was celebrated . the king had already been married once , and had by his first wife , seven children , six boys and a girl , whom he loved better than anything else in the world . as he now feared that the stepmother might not treat them well , and even do them some injury , he took them to a lonely castle which stood in the midst of a forest . it lay so concealed , and the way was so difficult to find that he himself would not have found it , if a wise woman had not given him a ball of yarn with wonderful properties . when he threw it down before him , it unrolled itself and showed him his path . the king , however , went so frequently away to his dear children that the queen observed his absence , she was curious and wanted to know what he did when he was quite alone in the forest . she gave a great deal of money to his servants , and they betrayed the secret to her , and told her likewise of the ball which alone could point out the way . and now she knew no rest until she had learnt where the king kept the ball of yarn , and then she made little shirts of white silk , and as she had learnt the art of witchcraft from her mother , she sewed a charm inside them . and once when the king had ridden forth to hunt , she took the little shirts and went into the forest , and the ball showed her the way . the children , who saw from a distance that someone was approaching , thought that their dear father was coming to them , and full of joy , ran to meet him . then she threw one of the little shirts over each of them , and no sooner had the shirts touched their bodies than they were changed into swans , and flew away over the forest . the queen went home quite delighted , and thought she had got rid of her step-children , but the girl had not run out with her brothers , and the queen knew nothing about her . next day the king went to visit his children , but he found no one but the little girl . where are your brothers , asked the king . alas , dear father , she answered , they have gone away and left me alone , and she told him that she had seen from her little window how her brothers had flown away over the forest in the shape of swans , and she showed him the feathers , which they had let fall in the courtyard , and which she had picked up . the king mourned , but he did not think that the queen had done this wicked deed , and as he feared that the girl would also be stolen away from him , he wanted to take her away with him . but she was afraid of her step-mother , and entreated the king to let her stay just this one night more in the forest castle . the poor girl thought , i can no longer stay here . i will go and seek my brothers . and when night came , she ran away , and went straight into the forest . she walked the whole night long , and next day also without stopping , until she could go no farther for weariness . then she saw a forest-hut , and went into it , and found a room with six little beds , but she did not venture to get into one of them , but crept under one , and lay down on the hard ground , intending to pass the night there . just before sunset , however , she heard a rustling , and saw six swans come flying in at the window . they alighted on the ground and blew at each other , and blew all the feathers off , and their swans , skins stripped off like a shirt . then the maiden looked at them and recognized her brothers , was glad and crept forth from beneath the bed . the brothers were not less delighted to see their little sister , but their joy was of short duration . here you cannot abide , they said to her . this is a shelter for robbers , if they come home and find you , they will kill you . but can you not protect me , asked the little sister . no , they replied , only for one quarter of an hour each evening can we lay aside our swans , skins and have during that time our human form , after that , we are once more turned into swans . the little sister wept and said , can you not be set free . alas , no , they answered , the conditions are too hard . for six years you may neither speak nor laugh , and in that time you must sew together six little shirts of starwort for us . and if one single word falls from your lips , all your work will be lost . and when the brothers had said this , the quarter of an hour was over , and they flew out of the window again as swans . the maiden , however , firmly resolved to deliver her brothers , even if it should cost her her life . she left the hut , went into the midst of the forest , seated herself on a tree , and there passed the night . next morning she went out and gathered starwort and began to sew . she could not speak to anyone , and she had no inclination to laugh , she sat there and looked at nothing but her work . when she had already spent a long time there it came to pass that the king of the country was hunting in the forest , and his huntsmen came to the tree on which the maiden was sitting . they called to her and said , who are you . but she made no answer . come down to us , said they . we will not do you any harm . she only shook her head . as they pressed her further with questions she threw her golden necklace down to them , and thought to content them thus . they , however , did not cease , and then she threw her girdle down to them , and as this also was to no purpose , her garters , and by degrees everything that she had on that she could do without until she had nothing left but her shift . the huntsmen , however , did not let themselves be turned aside by that , but climbed the tree and fetched the maiden down and led her before the king . the king asked , who are you . what are you doing on the tree . but she did not answer . he put the question in every language that he knew , but she remained as mute as a fish . as she was so beautiful , the king's heart was touched , and he was smitten with a great love for her . he put his mantle on her , took her before him on his horse , and carried her to his castle . then he caused her to be dressed in rich garments , and she shone in her beauty like bright daylight , but no word could be drawn from her . he placed her by his side at table , and her modest bearing and courtesy pleased him so much that he said , she is the one whom i wish to marry , and no other woman in the world . and after some days he united himself to her . the king , however , had a wicked mother who was dissatisfied with this marriage and spoke ill of the young queen . who knows , said she , from whence the creature who can't speak , comes . she is not worthy of a king . after a year had passed , when the queen brought her first child into the world , the old woman took it away from her , and smeared her mouth with blood as she slept . then she went to the king and accused the queen of being a man-eater . the king would not believe it , and would not suffer anyone to do her any injury . she , however , sat continually sewing at the shirts , and cared for nothing else . the next time , when she again bore a beautiful boy , the false mother-in-law used the same treachery , but the king could not bring himself to give credit to her words . he said , she is too pious and good to do anything of that kind , if she were not dumb , and could defend herself , her innocence would come to light . but when the old woman stole away the newly-born child for the third time , and accused the queen , who did not utter one word of defence , the king could do no otherwise than deliver her over to justice , and she was sentenced to suffer death by fire . when the day came for the sentence to be carried out , it was the last day of the six years during which she was not to speak or laugh , and she had delivered her dear brothers from the power of the enchantment . the six shirts were ready , only the left sleeve of the sixth was wanting . when , therefore , she was led to the stake , she laid the shirts on her arm , and when she stood on high and the fire was just going to be lighted , she looked around and six swans came flying through the air towards her . then she saw that her deliverance was near , and her heart leapt with joy . the swans swept towards her and sank down so that they were touched by them , their swans , skins fell off , and her brothers stood in their own bodily form before her , and were vigorous and handsome . the youngest only lacked his left arm , and had in the place of it a swan's wing on his shoulder . they embraced and kissed each other , and the queen went to the king , who was greatly moved , and she began to speak and said , dearest husband , now i may speak and declare to you that i am innocent , and falsely accused . and she told him of the treachery of the old woman who had taken away her three children and hidden them . then to the great joy of the king they were brought thither , and as a punishment , the wicked mother-in-law was bound to the stake , and burnt to ashes . but the king and the queen with her six brothers lived many years in happiness and peace .