there was once upon a time a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pig-stye close by the sea , and every day he went out fishing . and he fished , and he fished . and once he was sitting with his rod , looking at the clear water , and he sat and he sat . then his line suddenly went down , far down below , and when he drew it up again , he brought out a large flounder . then the flounder said to him , hark , you fisherman , i pray you , let me live , i am no flounder really , but an enchanted prince . what good will it do you to kill me . i should not be good to eat , put me in the water again , and let me go . come , said the fisherman , there is no need for so many words about it - a fish that can talk i should certainly let go , anyhow . and with that he put him back again into the clear water , and the flounder went to the bottom , leaving a long streak of blood behind him . then the fisherman got up and went home to his wife in the pig-stye . husband , said the woman , have you caught nothing to-day . no , said the man , i did catch a flounder , who said he was an enchanted prince , so i let him go again . did you not wish for anything first , said the woman . no , said the man , what should i wish for . ah , said the woman , it is surely hard to have to live always in this pig-stye which stinks and is so disgusting . you might have wished for a little hut for us . go back and call him . tell him we want to have a little hut , he will certainly give us that . ah , said the man , why should i go there again . why , said the woman , you did catch him , and you let him go again . he is sure to do it . go at once . the man still did not quite like to go , but did not like to oppose his wife either , and went to the sea . when he got there the sea was all green and yellow , and no longer so smooth , so he stood still and said , flounder , flounder in the sea , come , i pray thee , here to me . for my wife , good ilsabil , wills not as i'd have her will . then the flounder came swimming to him and said , well what does she want , then . ah , said the man , i did catch you , and my wife says i really ought to have wished for something . she does not like to live in a pig-stye any longer . she would like to have a hut . go , then , said the flounder , she has it already . when the man went home , his wife was no longer in the stye , but instead of it there stood a hut , and she was sitting on a bench before the door . then she took him by the hand and said to him , just come inside . look , now isn't this a great deal better . so they went in , and there was a small porch , and a pretty little parlor and bedroom , and a kitchen and pantry , with the best of furniture , and fitted up with the most beautiful things made of tin and brass , whatsoever was wanted . and behind the hut there was a small yard , with hens and ducks , and a little garden with flowers and fruit . look , said the wife , is not that nice . yes , said the husband , and so it shall remain - now we will live quite contented . we will think about that said the wife . with that they ate something and went to bed . everything went well for a week or a fortnight , and then the woman said , hark you , husband , this hut is far too small for us , and the garden and yard are little . the flounder might just as well have given us a larger house . i should like to live in a great stone castle . go to the flounder , and tell him to give us a castle . ah , wife , said the man , the hut is quite good enough . why whould we live in a castle . what . said the woman . just go there , the flounder can always do that . no , wife , said the man , the flounder has just given us the hut , i do not like to go back so soon , it might make him angry . go , said the woman , he can do it quite easily , and will be glad to do it . just you go to him . the man's heart grew heavy , and he would not go . he said to himself , it is not right , and yet he went . and when he came to the sea the water was quite purple and dark-blue , and grey and thick , and no longer so green and yellow , but it was still quiet . and he stood there and said , flounder , flounder in the sea , come , i pray thee , here to me . for my wife , good ilsabil , wills not as i'd have her will . well , what does she want , now , said the flounder . alas , said the man , half scared , she wants to live in a great stone castle . go to it , then , she is standing before the door , said the flounder . then the man went away , intending to go home , but when he got there , he found a great stone palace , and his wife was just standing on the steps going in , and she took him by the hand and said , come in . so he went in with her , and in the castle was a great hall paved with marble , and many servants , who flung wide the doors . and the walls were all bright with beautiful hangings , and in the rooms were chairs and tables of pure gold , and crystal chandeliers hung from the ceiling , and all the rooms and bedrooms had carpets , and food and wine of the very best were standing on all the tables , so that they nearly broke down beneath it . behind the house , too , there was a great court-yard , with stables for horses and cows , and the very best of carriages . there was a magnificent large garden , too , with the most beautiful flowers and fruit-trees , and a park quite half a mile long , in which were stags , deer , and hares , and everything that could be desired . come , said the woman , isn't that beautiful . yes , indeed , said the man , now let it be , and we will live in this beautiful castle and be content . we will consider about that , said the woman , and sleep upon it . thereupon they went to bed . next morning the wife awoke first , and it was just daybreak , and from her bed she saw the beautiful country lying before her . her husband was still stretching himself , so she poked him in the side with her elbow , and said , get up , husband , and just peep out of the window . look you , couldn't we be the king over all that land . go to the flounder , we will be the king . ah , wife , said the man , why should we be king . i do not want to be king . well , said the wife , if you won't be king , i will . go to the flounder , for i will be king . ah , wife , said the man , why do you want to be king . i do not like to say that to him . why not , said the woman . go to him this instant . i must be king . so the man went , and was quite unhappy because his wife wished to be king . it is not right , it is not right , thought he . he did not wish to go , but yet he went . and when he came to the sea , it was quite dark-grey , and the water heaved up from below , and smelt putrid . then he went and stood by it , and said , flounder , flounder in the sea , come , i pray thee , here to me . for my wife , good ilsabil , wills not as i'd have her will . well , what does she want , now . said the flounder . alas , said the man , she wants to be king . go to her . she is king already . so the man went , and when he came to the palace , the castle had become much larger , and had a great tower and magnificent ornaments , and the sentinel was standing before the door , and there were numbers of soldiers with kettle-drums and trumpets . and when he went inside the house , everything was of real marble and gold , with velvet covers and great golden tassels . then the doors of the hall were opened , and there was the court in all its splendor , and his wife was sitting on a high throne of gold and diamonds , with a great crown of gold on her head , and a sceptre of pure gold and jewels in her hand , and on both sides of her stood her maids-in-waiting in a row , each of them always one head shorter than the last . then he went and stood before her , and said , ah , wife , and now you are king . yes , said the woman , now i am king . so he stood and looked at her , and when he had looked at her thus for some time , he said , and now that you are king , let all else be , now we will wish for nothing more . no , husband , said the woman , quite anxiously , i find time passes very heavily , i can bear it no longer . go to the flounder - i am king , but i must be emperor , too . oh , wife , why do you wish to be emperor . husband , said she , go to the flounder . i will be emperor . alas , wife , said the man , he cannot make you emperor . i may not say that to the fish . there is only one emperor in the land . an emperor the flounder cannot make you . i assure you he cannot . what . said the woman , i am the king , and you are nothing but my husband . will you go this moment . go at once . if he can make a king he can make an emperor . i will be emperor . go instantly . so he was forced to go . as the man went , however , he was troubled in mind , and thought to himself , it will not end well . it will not end well . emperor is too shameless . the flounder will at last be tired out . with that he reached the sea , and the sea was quite black and thick , and began to boil up from below , so that it threw up bubbles , and such a sharp wind blew over it that it curdled , and the man was afraid . then he went and stood by it , and said , flounder , flounder in the sea , come , i pray thee , here to me . for my wife , good ilsabil , wills not as i'd have her will . well , what does she want , now , said the flounder . alas , flounder , said he , my wife wants to be emperor . go to her , said the flounder . she is emperor already . so the man went , and when he got there the whole palace was made of polished marble with alabaster figures and golden ornaments , and soldiers were marching before the door blowing trumpets , and beating cymbals and drums . and in the house , barons , and counts , and dukes were going about as servants . then they opened the doors to him , which were of pure gold . and when he entered , there sat his wife on a throne , which was made of one piece of gold , and was quite two miles high . and she wore a great golden crown that was three yards high , and set with diamonds and carbuncles , and in one hand she had the sceptre , and in the other the imperial orb . and on both sides of her stood the yeomen of the guard in two rows , each being smaller than the one before him , from the biggest giant , who was two miles high , to the very smallest dwarf , just as big as my little finger . and before it stood a number of princes and dukes . then the man went and stood among them , and said , wife , are you emperor now . yes , said she , now i am emperor . then he stood and looked at her well , and when he had looked at her thus for some time , he said , ah , wife , be content , now that you are emperor . husband , said she , why are you standing there . now , i am emperor , but i will be pope too . go to the flounder . oh , wife , said the man , what will you not wish for . you cannot be pope . there is but one in christendom . he cannot make you pope . husband , said she , i will be pope . go immediately , i must be pope this very day . no , wife , said the man , i do not like to say that to him . that would not do , it is too much . the flounder can't make you pope . husband , said she , what nonsense . if he can make an emperor he can make a pope . go to him directly . i am emperor , and you are nothing but my husband . will you go at once . then he was afraid and went , but he was quite faint , and shivered and shook , and his knees and legs trembled . and a high wind blew over the land , and the clouds flew , and towards evening all grew dark , and the leaves fell from the trees , and the water rose and roared as if it were boiling , and splashed upon the shore . and in the distance he saw ships which were firing guns in their sore need , pitching and tossing on the waves . and yet in the midst of the sky there was still a small patch of blue , though on every side it was as red as in a heavy storm . so , full of despair , he went and stood in much fear and said , flounder , flounder in the sea , come , i pray thee , here to me . for my wife , good ilsabil , wills not as i'd have her will . well , what does she want , now , said the flounder . alas , said the man , she wants to be pope . go to her then , said the flounder , she is pope already . so he went , and when he got there , he saw what seemed to be a large church surrounded by palaces . he pushed his way through the crowd . inside , however , everything was lighted up with thousands and thousands of candles , and his wife was clad in gold , and she was sitting on a much higher throne , and had three great golden crowns on , and round about her there was much ecclesiastical splendor . and on both sides of her was a row of candles the largest of which was as tall as the very tallest tower , down to the very smallest kitchen candle , and all the emperors and kings were on their knees before her , kissing her shoe . wife , said the man , and looked attentively at her , are you now pope . yes , said she , i am pope . so he stood and looked at her , and it was just as if he was looking at the bright sun . when he had stood looking at her thus for a short time , he said , ah , wife , if you are pope , do let well alone . but she looked as stiff as a post , and did not move or show any signs of life . then said he , wife , now that you are pope , be satisfied , you cannot become anything greater now . i will consider about that , said the woman . thereupon they both went to bed , but she was not satisfied , and greediness let her have no sleep , for she was continually thinking what there was left for her to be . the man slept well and soundly , for he had run about a great deal during the day . but the woman could not fall asleep at all , and flung herself from one side to the other the whole night through , thinking always what more was left for her to be , but unable to call to mind anything else . at length the sun began to rise , and when the woman saw the red of dawn , she sat up in bed and looked at it . and when , through the window , she saw the sun thus rising , she said , cannot i , too , order the sun and moon to rise . husband , she said , poking him in the ribs with her elbows , wake up . go to the flounder , for i wish to be even as god is . the man was still half asleep , but he was so horrified that he fell out of bed . he thought he must have heard amiss , and rubbed his eyes , and said , wife , what are you saying . husband , said she , if i can't order the sun and moon to rise , and have to look on and see the sun and moon rising , i can't bear it . i shall not know what it is to have another happy hour , unless i can make them rise myself . then she looked at him so terribly that a shudder ran over him , and said , go at once . i wish to be like unto god . alas , wife , said the man , falling on his knees before her , the flounder cannot do that . he can make an emperor and a pope . i beseech you , go on as you are , and be pope . then she fell into a rage , and her hair flew wildly about her head , she tore open her bodice , kicked him with her foot , and screamed , i can't stand it , i can't stand it any longer . will you go this instant . then he put on his trousers and ran away like a madman . but outside a great storm was raging , and blowing so hard that he could scarcely keep his feet . houses and trees toppled over , the mountains trembled , rocks rolled into the sea , the sky was pitch black , and it thundered and lightened , and the sea came in with black waves as high as church-towers and mountains , and all with crests of white foam at the top . then he cried , but could not hear his own words , flounder , flounder in the sea , come , i pray thee , here to me . for my wife , good ilsabil , wills not as i'd have her will . well , what does she want , now , said the flounder . alas , said he , she wants to be like unto god . go to her , and you will find her back again in the pig-stye . and there they are still living to this day .