in a certain village there once lived a man and his wife , and the wife was so lazy that she would never work at anything . whatever her husband gave her to spin , she did not get done , and what she did spin she did not wind , but let it all remain entangled in a heap . if the man scolded her , she was always ready with her tongue , and said , well , how should i wind it , when i have no reel . just you go into the forest and get me one . if that is all , said the man , then i will go into the forest , and get some wood for making reels . then the woman was afraid that if he had the wood he would make her a reel of it , and she would have to wind her yarn off , and then begin to spin again . she bethought herself a little , and then a lucky idea occurred to her , and she secretly followed the man into the forest , and when he had climbed into a tree to choose and cut the wood , she crept into the thicket below where he could not see her , and cried , he who cuts wood for reels shall die , and he who winds , shall perish . the man listened , laid down his axe for a moment , and began to consider what that could mean . well , he said at last , what can that have been , my ears must have been singing , i won't alarm myself for nothing . so he once more seized the axe , and began to hew . then again there came a cry from below , he who cuts wood for reels shall die , and he who winds , shall perish . he stopped , and felt afraid and alarmed , and pondered over the circumstance . but when a few moments had passed , he took heart again , and a third time he stretched out his hand for the axe , and began to cut . but someone called out a third time , and said loudly , he who cuts wood for reels shall die , and he who winds , shall perish . that was enough for him , and all inclination had departed from him , so he hastily descended the tree , and set out on his way home . the woman ran as fast as she could by byways so as to get home first . so when he entered the parlor , she put on an innocent look as if nothing had happened , and said , well , have you brought a nice piece of wood for reels . no , said he , i see very well that winding won't do , and told her what had happened to him in the forest , and from that time forth left her in peace about it . neverthless after some time , the man again began to complain of the disorder in the house . wife , said he , it is really a shame that the spun yarn should lie there all entangled . i'll tell you what , said she , as we still don't come by any reel , go you up into the loft , and i will stand down below , and will throw the yarn up to you , and you will throw it down to me , and so we shall get a skein after all . yes , that will do , said the man . so they did that , and when it was done , he said , the yarn is in skeins , now it must be boiled . the woman was again distressed , and said , yes , we will boil it to-morrow morning early . but she was secretly contriving another trick . early in the morning she got up , lighted a fire , and put the kettle on , only instead of the yarn , she put in a lump of tow and let it boil . after that she went to the man who was still lying in bed , and said to him , i must just go out , you must get up and look after the yarn which is in the kettle on the fire , but you must be at hand at once , mind that , for if the cock should happen to crow , and you are not attending to the yarn , it will become tow . the man was willing and took good care not to loiter . he got up as quickly as he could , and went into the kitchen . but when he reached the kettle and peeped in , he saw , to his horror , nothing but a lump of tow . then the poor man was as still as a mouse , thinking he had neglected it , and was to blame , and in future said no more about yarn and spinning . but you yourself must own that she was an odious woman .