a certain tailor had a son , who happened to be small , and no bigger than a thumb , and on this account he was always called thumbling . he had , however , some courage in him , and said to his father , father , i must and will go out into the world . that's right , my son , said the old man , and took a long darning-needle and made a knob of sealing-wax on it at the handle , and there is a sword for you to take with you on the way . then the little tailor wanted to have one more meal with them , and hopped into the kitchen to see what his mother had cooked for the last time . but it was already served , and the dish stood on the hearth . then he said , mother , what is there to eat to-day . see for yourself , said his mother . so thumbling jumped on to the hearth , and peeped into the dish , but as he stretched his neck in too far the steam from the food caught hold of him , and carried him up the chimney . he rode about in the air on the steam for a while , until at length he sank down to the ground again . now the little tailor was outside in the wide world , and he traveled about , and went to a master in his craft , but the food was not good enough for him . mistress , if you give us no better food , said thumbling , i will go away , and early to-morrow morning i will write with chalk on the door of your house - too many potatoes , too little meat . farewell , mr . potato-king . what would you have forsooth , grasshopper , said the mistress , and grew angry , and seized a dishcloth , and was just going to strike him , but my little tailor crept nimbly under a thimble , peeped out from beneath it , and put his tongue out at the mistress . she took up the thimble , and wanted to get hold of him , but little thumbling hopped into the cloth , and while the mistress was opening it out and looking for him , he got into a crevice in the table . ho , ho , lady mistress , cried he , and thrust his head out , and when she began to strike him he leapt down into the drawer . at last , however , she caught him and drove him out of the house . the little tailor journeyed on and came to a great forest , and there he fell in with a band of robbers who had a design to steal the king's treasure . when they saw the little tailor , they thought , a little fellow like that can creep through a key-hole and serve as picklock to us . hi , there , cried one of them , you giant goliath , will you go to the treasure-chamber with us . you can slip yourself in and throw out the money . thumbling reflected a while , and at length he said , yes , and went with them to the treasure-chamber . then he looked at the doors above and below , to see if there was any crack in them . it was not long before he espied one which was broad enough to let him in . he was therefore about to get in at once , but one of the two sentries who stood before the door , observed him , and said to the other , what an ugly spider is creeping there , i will kill it . let the poor creature alone , said the other , it has done you no harm . then thumbling got safely through the crevice into the treasure-chamber , opened the window beneath which the robbers were standing , and threw out to them one taler after another . when the little tailor was in the full swing of his work , he heard the king coming to inspect his treasure-chamber , and crept hastily into a hiding-place . the king noticed that several solid talers were missing , but could not conceive who could have stolen them , for locks and bolts were in good condition , and all seemed well guarded . then he went away again , and said to the sentries , be on the watch , someone is after the money . when therefore thumbling recommenced his labors , they heard the money moving , and a sound of klink , klink , klink . they ran swiftly in to seize the thief , but the little tailor , who heard them coming , was still swifter , and leapt into a corner and covered himself with a taler , so that nothing could be seen of him , and at the same time he mocked the sentries and cried , here am i . the sentries ran thither , but as they got there , he had already hopped into another corner under a taler , and was crying , ho , ho , here am i . and thus he made fools of them , and drove them so long round about the treasure-chamber that they were weary and went away . then by degrees he threw all the talers out , dispatching the last with all his might , then hopped nimbly upon it , and flew down with it through the window . the robbers paid him great compliments . you are a valiant hero , said they , will you be our captain . thumbling , however , declined , and said he wanted to see the world first . they now divided the booty , but the little tailor only asked for a kreuzer because he could not carry more . then he once more buckled on his sword , bade the robbers goodbye , and took to the road . first , he went to work with some masters , but he had no liking for that , and at last he hired himself as manservant in an inn . the maids , however , could not endure him , for he saw all they did secretly , without their seeing him , and he told their employers what they had taken off the plates , and carried away out of the cellar , for themselves . then said they , wait , and we will pay you out , and arranged with each other to play him a trick . soon afterwards when one of the maids was mowing in the garden , and saw thumbling jumping about and creeping up and down the plants , she mowed him up quickly with the grass , tied all in a great cloth , and secretly threw it to the cows . now amongst them there was a great black one , who swallowed him down without hurting him . down below , however , it did not suit him , for it was quite dark , neither was any candle burning . when the cow was being milked he cried , strip , strap , strull , when will the pail be full . but the noise of the milking prevented his being understood . after this the master of the house came into the stall and said , that cow shall be killed to-morrow . then thumbling was so alarmed that he cried out in a clear voice , let me out first , i am sitting inside her . the master heard that quite well , but did not know from whence the voice came . where are you , asked he . in the black one , answered thumbling , but the master did not understand what that meant , and went out . next morning the cow was killed . happily thumbling did not meet with one blow at the cutting up and chopping , he got among the sausage-meat . and when the butcher came in and began his work , he cried out with all his might , don't chop too deep , don't chop too deep , i am amongst it . no one heard this because of the noise of the chopping-knife . now poor thumbling was in trouble , but trouble sharpens the wits , and he sprang out so adroitly between the blows that none of them touched him , and he escaped with a whole skin . but still he could not get away , there was nothing for it but to let himself be thrust into a black-pudding with the bits of bacon . his quarters there were rather confined , and besides that he was hung up in the chimney to be smoked , and there time did hang terribly heavy on his hands . at length in winter he was taken down again , as the black-pudding had to be set before a guest . when the hostess was cutting it in slices , he took care not to stretch out his head too far lest a bit of it should be cut off , at last he saw his opportunity , cleared a passage for himself , and jumped out . the little tailor , however , would not stay any longer in a house where he fared so ill , so at once set out on his journey again . but his liberty did not last long . in the open country he met with a fox who snapped him up without thinking . hi , there , mr . fox , cried the little tailor , it is i who am sticking in your throat , set me at liberty again . you are right , answered the fox . you are next to nothing for me , but if you will promise me the fowls in your father's yard i will let you go . with all my heart , replied thumbling . you shall have all the cocks and hens , that i promise you . then the fox let him go again , and himself carried him home . when the father once more saw his dear son , he willingly gave the fox all the fowls which he had . for this i likewise bring you a handsome bit of money , said thumbling , and gave his father the kreuzer which he earned on his travels . but why did the fox get the poor chickens to eat . oh , you silly , your father would surely love his child far more than the fowls in the yard .