one day a peasant took his good hazel-stick out of the corner and said to his wife , trina , i am going across country , and shall not return for three days . if during that time the cattle-dealer should happen to call and want to buy our three cows , you may strike a bargain at once , but not unless you can get two hundred talers for them , nothing less , do you hear . for heaven's sake , just go in peace , answered the woman , i will manage that . you , indeed , said the man . you once fell on your head when you were a little child , and that affects you even now , but let me tell you this , if you do anything foolish , i will make your back black and blue , and not with paint , i assure you , but with the stick which i have in my hand , and the coloring shall last a whole year , you may rely on that . and having said that , the man went on his way . next morning the cattle-dealer came , and the woman had no need to say many words to him . when he had seen the cows and heard the price , he said , i am quite willing to give that . honestly speaking , they are worth it . i will take the beasts away with me at once . he unfastened their chains and drove them out of the byre , but just as he was going out of the yard-door , the woman clutched him by the sleeve and said , you must give me the two hundred talers now , or i cannot let the cows go . true , answered the man , but i have forgotten to buckle on my money-belt . have no fear , however , you shall have security for my paying . i will take two cows with me and leave one , and then you will have a good pledge . the woman saw the force of this , and let the man go away with the cows , and thought to herself , how pleased hans will be when he finds how cleverly i have managed it . the peasant came home on the third day as he had said he would , and at once inquired if the cows were sold . yes , indeed , dear hans , answered the woman , and as you said , for two hundred talers . they are scarcely worth so much , but the man took them without making any objection . where is the money , asked the peasant . oh , i have not got the money , replied the woman , he had happened to forget his money-belt , but he will soon bring it , and he left good security behind him . what kind of security , asked the man . one of the three cows , which he shall not have until he has paid for the other two . i have managed very cunningly , for i have kept the smallest , which eats the least . the man was enraged and lifted up his stick , and was just going to give her the beating he had promised her , when suddenly he let the stick fail and said , you are the stupidest goose that ever waddled on god's earth , but i am sorry for you . i will go out into the highways and wait for three days to see if i find anyone who is still stupider than you . if i succeed in doing so , you shall go scot-free , but if i do not find him , you shall receive your well-deserved reward without any discount . he went out into the great highways , sat down on a stone , and waited for what would happen . then he saw a peasant's waggon coming towards him , and a woman was standing upright in the middle of it , instead of sitting on the bundle of straw which was lying beside her , or walking near the oxen and leading them . the man thought to himself , that is certainly one of the kind i am in search of , and jumped up and ran backwards and forwards in front of the waggon like one who is not in his right mind . what do you want , my friend , said the woman to him . i don't know you , where do you come from . i have fallen down from heaven , replied the man , and don't know how to get back again , couldn't you drive me up . no , said the woman , i don't know the way , but if you come from heaven you can surely tell me how my husband is , who has been there these three years . you must have seen him . oh , yes , i have seen him , but all men can't get on well . he keeps sheep , and the sheep give him a great deal to do . they run up the mountains and lose their way in the wilderness , and he has to run after them and drive them together again . his clothes are all torn to pieces too , and will soon fall off his body . there is no tailor there , for saint peter won't let any of them in , as you know by the story . who would have thought it , cried the woman , i tell you what , i will fetch his sunday coat which is still hanging at home in the cupboard . he can wear that and look respectable . you will be so kind as to take it with you . that won't do very well , answered the peasant , people are not allowed to take clothes into heaven , they are taken away at the gate . then listen , said the woman , i sold my fine wheat yesterday and got a good lot of money for it , i will send that to him . if you hide the purse in your pocket , no one will know that you have it . if you can't manage it any other way , said the peasant , i will do you that favor . just sit still where you are , said she , and i will drive home and fetch the purse , i shall soon be back again . i do not sit down on the bundle of straw , but stand up in the waggon , because it makes it lighter for the cattle . she drove her oxen away , and the peasant thought , that woman has a perfect talent for folly , if she really brings the money , my wife may think herself fortunate , for she will get no beating . it was not long before she came in a great hurry with the money , and with her own hands put it in his pocket . before she went away , she thanked him again a thousand times for his courtesy . when the woman got home again , she found her son who had come in from the field . she told him what unexpected things had befallen her , and then added , i am truly delighted at having found an opportunity of sending something to my poor husband . who would ever have imagined that he could be suffering for want of anything up in heaven . the son was full of astonishment . mother , said he , it is not every day that a man comes from heaven in this way , i will go out immediately , and see if he is still to be found , he must tell me what it is like up there , and how the work is done . he saddled the horse and rode off with all speed . he found the peasant who was sitting under a willow-tree , and was about to count the money in the purse . have you seen the man who has fallen down from heaven , cried the youth to him . yes , answered the peasant , he has set out on his way back there , and has gone up that hill , from whence it will be rather nearer , you could still catch him up , if you were to ride fast . alas , said the youth , i have been doing tiring work all day , and the ride here has completely worn me out , you know the man , be so kind as to get on my horse , and go and persuade him to come here . aha , thought the peasant , here is another who has not a brain in his head . why should i not do you this favor , said he , and mounted the horse and rode off at a quick trot . the youth remained sitting there till night fell , but the peasant never came back . the man from heaven must certainly have been in a great hurry , and would not turn back , thought he , and the peasant has no doubt given him the horse to take to my father . he went home and told his mother what had happened , and that he had sent his father the horse so that he might not have to be always running about . you have done well , answered she , your legs are younger than his , and you can go on foot . when the peasant got home , he put the horse in the stable beside the cow which he had as a pledge , and then went to his wife and said , trina , as your luck would have it , i have found two who are still sillier fools than you , this time you escape without a beating . i will store it up for another occasion . then he lighted his pipe , sat down in his grandfather's chair , and said , it was a good stroke of business to get a sleek horse and a great purse full of money into the bargain , for two lean cows . if stupidity always brought in as much as that , i would be quite willing to hold it in honor . so thought the peasant , but you no doubt prefer simpletons .