master pfriem was a short , thin , but lively man , who never rested a moment . his face , of which his turned-up nose was the only prominent feature , was marked with smallpox and pale as death . his hair was gray and shaggy , his eyes small , but they glanced perpetually about on all sides . he saw everything , criticized everything , knew everything best , and was always in the right . when he went into the streets , he moved his arms about as if he were rowing , and once he struck the pail of a girl so high in the air that he himself was wetted all over by the water she was carrying . idiot . cried he to her , shaking himself , could you not see that i was coming behind you . by trade he was a shoemaker , and when he worked he pulled his thread out with such force that he drove his fist into everyone who did not keep far enough off . no apprentice stayed more than a month with him , for he had always some fault to find with the very best work . at one time it was that the stitches were not even , at another that one shoe was too long , or one heel higher than the other , or the leather not cut large enough . wait , said he to his apprentice , i will soon show you how we make skins soft . and he brought a strap and gave him a couple of lashes across the back . he called them all sluggards . he himself did not turn much work out of his hands , for he never sat still for a quarter of an hour . if his wife got up very early in the morning and lighted the fire , he jumped out of bed , and ran barefooted into the kitchen , crying , will you burn my house down for me . that is a fire one could roast an ox by . does wood cost nothing . if the servants were standing by their wash-tubs and laughing , and telling each other what they knew , he scolded them , and said , there stand the geese cackling , and forgetting their work , to gossip . and why fresh soap . disgraceful extravagance and shameful idleness into the bargain . they want to save their hands , and not rub the things properly . and out he would run and knock a pail full of soap and water over , so that the whole kitchen was flooded . someone was building a new house , so he hurrried to the window to look on . there , they are using that red sand-stone again that never dries , cried he . no one will ever be healthy in that house . and just look how badly the fellows are laying the stones . besides , the mortar is good for nothing . it ought to have gravel in it , not sand . i shall live to see that house tumble down on the people who are in it . he sat down , put a couple of stitches in , and then jumped up again , unfastened his leather-apron , and cried , i will just go out , and appeal to those men's consciences . he stumbled on the carpenters . what's this , cried he , you are not working by the line . do you expect the beams to be straight - one wrong will put all wrong . he snatched an axe out of a carpenter's hand and wanted to show him how he ought to cut , but as a cart loaded with clay came by , he threw the axe away , and hastened to the peasant who was walking by the side of it , you are not in your right mind , said he , who yokes young horses to a heavily-laden cart . the poor beasts will die on the spot . the peasant did not give him an answer , and pfriem in a rage ran back into his work-shop . when he was setting himself to work again , the apprentice reached him a shoe . well , what's that again , screamed he , haven't i told you you ought not to cut shoes so broad . who would buy a shoe like this , which is hardly anything else but a sole . i insist on my orders being followed exactly . master , answered the apprentice , you may easily be quite right about the shoe being a bad one , but it is the one which you yourself cut out , and yourself set to work at . when you jumped up a while ago , you knocked it off the table , and i have only just picked it up . an angel from heaven , however , would never make you believe that . one night master pfriem dreamed he was dead , and on his way to heaven . when he got there , he knocked loudly at the door . i wonder , said he to himself , that they have no knocker on the door , one knocks one's knuckles sore . the apostle peter opened the door , and wanted to see who demanded admission so noisily . ah , it's you master pfriem , said he , well , i'll let you in , but i warn you that you must give up that habit of yours , and find fault with nothing you see in heaven , or you may fare ill . you might have spared your warning , answered pfriem . i know already what is seemly , and here , god be thanked , everything is perfect , and there is nothing to blame as there is on earth . so he went in , and walked up and down the wide expanses of heaven . he looked around him , to the left and to the right , but sometimes shook his head , or muttered something to himself . then he saw two angels who were carrying away a beam . it was the beam which someone had had in his own eye whilst he was looking for the splinter in the eye of another . they did not carry the beam lengthways , however , but obliquely . did anyone ever see such a piece of stupidity , thought master pfriem . but he said nothing , and seemed satisfied with it . it comes to the same thing after all , whichever way they carry the beam , straight or athwart , if they only get along with it , and truly i do not see them knock against anything . soon after this he saw two angels who were drawing water out of a well into a bucket , but at the same time he observed that the bucket was full of holes , and that the water was running out of it on every side . they were watering the earth with rain . hang it , he exclaimed , but happily recollected himself , and thought , perhaps it is only a pastime . if it is an amusement , then it seems they can do useless things of this kind , especially here in heaven , where people , as i have already noticed , do nothing but idle about . he went farther and saw a cart which had stuck fast in a deep hole . it's no wonder , said he to the man who stood by , who would load so unreasonably . what have you there . good wishes , replied the man , i could not get on the right way with it , but still i have pushed it safely up here , and here they won't leave me stuck . in fact an angel did come and harness two horses to it . that's quite right , thought pfriem , but two horses won't get that cart out , it must at least have four to it . another angel came and brought two more horses , she did not harness them in front of it , however , but behind . that was too much for master pfriem , clumsy creature , he burst out , what are you doing there . has anyone ever since the world began seen a cart drawn in that way . but you , in your conceited arrogance , think that you know everything best . he was going to say more , but one of the inhabitants of heaven seized him by the throat and pushed him forth with irresistible strength . beneath the gateway master pfriem turned his head round to take one more look at the cart , and saw that it was being raised into the air by four winged horses . at this moment master pfriem awoke . things are certainly arranged in heaven otherwise than they are on earth , said he to himself , and that excuses much , but who can see horses harnessed both behind and before with patience . to be sure they had wings but who could know that . it is , beside , great folly to fix a pair of wings to a horse that has four legs to run with already . but i must get up , or else they will make nothing but mistakes in my house . it is a lucky thing though , that i am not really dead .