a discharged soldier had nothing to live on , and did not know how to make his way . so he went out into the forest and when he had walked for a short time , he met a little man who turned out to be the devil . the little man said to him , " what ails you , you seem so very sorrowful ? " then the soldier said , " i am hungry , but have no money . " the devil said , " if you will hire yourself to me , and be my serving-man , you shall have enough for all your life . you shall serve me for seven years , and after that you shall again be free . but one thing i must tell you , and that is , you must not wash , comb , or trim yourself , or cut your hair or nails , or wipe the water from your eyes . " the soldier said , " all right , if there is no help for it , " and went off with the little man , who straightway led him down into hell . then he told him what he had to do . he was to poke the fire under the kettles wherein the hell-broth was stewing , keep the house clean , drive all the sweepings behind the doors , and see that everything was in order , but if he once peeped into the kettles , it would go ill with him . the soldier said , " good , i will take care . " and then the old devil went out again on his wanderings , and the soldier entered upon his new duties , made the fire , and swept the dirt well behind the doors , just as he had been bidden . when the old devil came back again , he looked to see if all had been done , appeared satisfied , and went forth a second time . the soldier now took a good look on every side , the kettles were standing all round hell with a mighty fire below them , and inside they were boiling and sputtering . he would have given anything to look inside them , if the devil had not so particularly forbidden him . at last he could no longer restrain himself , slightly raised the lid of the first kettle , and peeped in , and there he saw his former corporal sitting . " aha , old bird , " said he , " do i meet you here ? you once had me in your power , now i have you . " and he quickly let the lid fall , poked the fire , and added a fresh log . after that , he went to the second kettle , raised its lid also a little , and peeped in and there sat his former ensign . " aha , old bird , so i find you here , you once had me in your power , now i have you . " he closed the lid again , and fetched yet another log to make it really hot . then he wanted to see who might be sitting up in the third kettle - and who should it be but his general . " aha , old bird , do i meet you here . once you had me in your power , now i have you . " and he fetched the bellows and made hell-fire blaze right under him . so he did his work seven years in hell , did not wash , comb , or trim himself , or cut his hair or nails , or wash the water out of his eyes , and the seven years seemed so short to him that he thought he had only been half a year . now when the time had fully gone by , the devil came and said , " well hans , what have you done ? " " i poked the fire under the kettles , and i have swept all the dirt well behind the doors . " " but you have peeped into the kettles as well , it is lucky for you that you added fresh logs to them , or else your life would have been forfeited . now that your time is up , will you go home again ? " " yes , " said the soldier , " i should very much like to see what my father is doing at home . " the devil said , " in order that you may receive the wages you have earned , go and fill your knapsack full of the sweepings , and take it home with you . you must also go unwashed and uncombed , with long hair on your head and beard , and with uncut nails and dim eyes , and when you are asked whence you come , you must say , from hell , and when you are asked who you are , you are to say , the devil's sooty brother , and my king as well . " the soldier held his peace , and did as the devil bade him , but he was not at all satisfied with his wages . then as soon as he was up in the forest again , he took his knapsack from his back , to empty it , but on opening it , the sweepings had become pure gold . " i should never have expected that , " said he , and was well pleased , and entered the town . the landlord was standing in front of the inn , and when he saw the soldier approaching , he was terrified , because hans looked such a horrible sight , worse than a scare-crow . he called to him and asked , " whence do you come ? " " from hell . " " who are you ? " " the devil's sooty brother , and my king as well . " then the host would not let him enter , but when hans showed him the gold , he came and unlatched the door himself . hans then ordered the best room and attendance , ate , and drank his fill , but neither washed nor combed himself as the devil had bidden him , and at last lay down to sleep . but the knapsack full of gold remained before the eyes of the landlord , and left him no peace , and during the night he crept in and stole it away . next morning , however , when hans got up and wanted to pay the landlord and travel further , behold his knapsack was gone . but he soon composed himself and thought , you have been unfortunate from no fault of your own . and straightway went back again to hell , complained of his misfortune to the old devil , and begged for his help . the devil said , " seat yourself , i will wash , comb , and trim you , cut your hair and nails , and wash your eyes for you . " and when he had done with him , he gave him the knapsack back again full of sweepings , and said , " go and tell the landlord that he must return you your money , or else i will come and fetch him , and he shall poke the fire in your place . " hans went up and said to the landlord , " you have stolen my money , if you do not return it , you shall go down to hell in my place , and will look as horrible as i . " then the landlord gave him the money , and more besides , only begging him to keep it secret . and hans was now a rich man . he set out on his way home to his father , bought himself a shabby smock to wear , and strolled about making music , for he had learned to do that while he was with the devil in hell . there was however , an old king in that country , before whom he had to play , and the king was so delighted with his playing , that he promised him his eldest daughter in marriage . but when she heard that she was to be married to a common fellow in a smock , she said , " rather than do that , i would go into the deepest water . " then the king gave him the youngest , who was quite willing to do it to please her father , and thus the devil's sooty brother got the king's daughter , and when the aged king died , the whole kingdom likewise .