in a certain mill lived an old miller who had neither wife nor child , and three apprentices served under him . as they had been with him several years , he one day said to them , " i am old , and want to sit behind the stove . go out , and whichsoever of you brings me the best horse home , to him will i give the mill , and in return for it he shall take care of me till my death . " the third of the boys , however , was the dunce , who was looked on as foolish by the others , they begrudged the mill to him , and afterwards he would not even have it . then all three went out together , and when they came to the village , the two said to stupid hans , " you may just as well stay here , as long as you live you will never get a horse . " hans , however , went with them , and when it was night they came to a cave in which they lay down to sleep . the two smart ones waited until hans had fallen asleep , then they got up , and went away leaving him where he was . and they thought they had done a very clever thing , but it was certain to turn out ill for them . when the sun rose , and hans woke up , he was lying in a deep cavern . he looked around on every side and exclaimed , " oh , heavens , where am i ? " then he got up and clambered out of the cave , went into the forest , and thought , " here i am quite alone and deserted , how shall i obtain a horse now ? " whilst he was thus walking full of thought , he met a small tabby-cat which said quite kindly , " hans , where are you going ? " " alas , you can not help me . " " i well know your desire , " said the cat . " you wish to have a beautiful horse . come with me , and be my faithful servant for seven years long , and then i will give you one more beautiful than any you have ever seen in your whole life . " " well , this is a strange cat , " thought hans , " but i am determined to see if she is telling the truth . " so she took him with her into her enchanted castle , where there were nothing but kittens who were her servants . they leapt nimbly upstairs and downstairs , and were merry and happy . in the evening when they sat down to dinner , three of them had to make music . one played the bass viol , the other the fiddle , and the third put the trumpet to his lips , and blew out his cheeks as much as he possibly could . when they had dined , the table was carried away , and the cat said , " now , hans , come and dance with me . " " no , " said he , " i won't dance with a pussy cat . i have never done that yet . " " then take him to bed , " said she to the cats . so one of them lighted him to his bed-room , one pulled his shoes off , one his stockings , and at last one of them blew out the candle . next morning they returned and helped him out of bed , one put his stockings on for him , one tied his garters , one brought his shoes , one washed him , and one dried his face with her tail . " that feels very soft , " said hans . he , however , had to serve the cat , and chop some wood every day , and to do that , he had an axe of silver , and the wedge and saw were of silver and the mallet of copper . so he chopped the wood small , stayed there in the house and had good meat and drink , but never saw anyone but the tabby-cat and her servants . once she said to him , " go and mow my meadow , and dry the grass , " and gave him a scythe of silver , and a whetstone of gold , but bade him deliver them up again carefully . so hans went thither , and did what he was bidden , and when he had finished the work , he carried the scythe , whetstone , and hay to the house , and asked if it was not yet time for her to give him his reward . " no , " said the cat , " you must first do something more for me of the same kind . there is timber of silver , carpenter's axe , square , and everything that is needful , all of silver - with these build me a small house . " then hans built the small house , and said that he had now done everything , and still he had no horse . nevertheless the seven years had gone by with him as if they were six months . the cat asked him if he would like to see her horses . " yes , " said hans . then she opened the door of the small house , and when she had opened it , there stood twelve horses , - such horses , so bright and shining , that his heart rejoiced at the sight of them . and now she gave him to eat and drink , and said , " go home , i will not give you your horse now , but in three days , time i will follow you and bring it . " so hans set out , and she showed him the way to the mill . she , however , had never once given him a new coat , and he had been obliged to keep on his dirty old smock , which he had brought with him , and which during the seven years had everywhere become too small for him . when he reached home , the two other apprentices were there again as well , and each of them certainly had brought a horse with him , but one of them was a blind one , and the other lame . they asked hans where his horse was . " it will follow me in three days , time . " then they laughed and said , " indeed , stupid hans , where will you get a horse ? " " it will be a fine one . " hans went into the parlor , but the miller said he should not sit down to table , for he was so ragged and torn , that they would all be ashamed of him if any one came in . so they gave him a mouthful of food outside , and at night , when they went to rest , the two others would not let him have a bed , and at last he was forced to creep into the goose-house , and lie down on a little hard straw . in the morning when he awoke , the three days had passed , and a coach came with six horses and they shone so bright that it was delightful to see them - and a servant brought a seventh as well , which was for the poor miller's boy . and a magnificent princess alighted from the coach and went into the mill , and this princess was the little tabby-cat whom poor hans had served for seven years . she asked the miller where the miller's boy and dunce was . then the miller said , " we cannot have him here in the mill , for he is so ragged , he is lying in the goose-house . " then the king's daughter said that they were to bring him immediately . so they brought him out , and he had to hold his little smock together to cover himself . the servants unpacked splendid garments , and washed him and dressed him , and when that was done , no king could have looked more handsome . then the maiden desired to see the horses which the other apprentices had brought home with them , and one of them was blind and the other lame . so she ordered the servant to bring the seventh horse , and when the miller saw it , he said that such a horse as that had never yet entered his yard . " and that is for the third miller's boy , " said she . " then he must have the mill , " said the miller , but the king's daughter said that the horse was there , and that he was to keep his mill as well , and took her faithful hans and set him in the coach , and drove away with him . they first drove to the little house which he had built with the silver tools , and behold it was a great castle , and everything inside it was of silver and gold , and then she married him , and he was rich , so rich that he had enough for all the rest of his life . after this , let no one ever say that anyone who is silly can never become a person of importance .