there was once upon a time an old goat who had seven little kids , and loved them with all the love of a mother for her children . one day she wanted to go into the forest and fetch some food . so she called all seven to her and said , dear children , i have to go into the forest , be on your guard against the wolf , if he comes in , he will devour you all - skin , hair , and everything . the wretch often disguises himself , but you will know him at once by his rough voice and his black feet . the kids said , dear mother , we will take good care of ourselves , you may go away without any anxiety . then the old one bleated , and went on her way with an easy mind . it was not long before some one knocked at the house-door and called , open the door , dear children , your mother is here , and has brought something back with her for each of you . but the little kids knew that it was the wolf , by the rough voice . we will not open the door , cried they , you are not our mother . she has a soft , pleasant voice , but your voice is rough , you are the wolf . then the wolf went away to a shopkeeper and bought himself a great lump of chalk , ate this and made his voice soft with it . the he came back , knocked at the door of the house , and called , open the door , dear children , your mother is here and has brought something back with her for each of you . but the wolf had laid his black paws against the window , and the children saw them and cried , we will not open the door , our mother has not black feet like you , you are the wolf . then the wolf ran to a baker and said , i have hurt my feet , rub some dough over them for me . and when the baker had rubbed his feet over , he ran to the miller and said , strew some white meal over my feet for me . the miller thought to himself , the wolf wants to deceive someone , and refused , but the wolf said , if you will not do it , i will devour you . then the miller was afraid , and made his paws white for him . truly , this the way of mankind . so now the wretch went for the third time to the house-door , knocked at it and said , open the door for me , children , your dear little mother has come home , and has brought every one of you something back from the forest with her . the little kids cried , first show us your paws that we may know if you are our dear little mother . then he put his paws in through the window , and when the kids saw that they were white , they believed that all he said was true , and opened the door . but who should come in but the wolf they were terrified and wanted to hide themselves . one sprang under the table , the second into the bed , the third into the stove , the fourth into the kitchen , the fifth into the cupboard , the sixth under the washing-bowl , and the seventh into the clock-case . but the wolf found them all , and used no great ceremony , one after the other he swallowed them down his throat . the youngest , who was in the clock-case , was the only one he did not find . when the wolf had satisfied his appetite he took himself off , laid himself down under a tree in the green meadow outside , and began to sleep . soon afterwards the old goat came home again from the forest . ah . what a sight she saw there . the house-door stood wide open . the table , chairs , and benches were thrown down , the washing-bowl lay broken to pieces , and the quilts and pillows were pulled off the bed . she sought her children , but they were nowhere to be found . she called them one after another by name , but no one answered . at last , when she caame to the youngest , a soft voice cried , dear mother , i am in the clock-case . she took the kid out , and it told her that the wolf had come and had eaten all the others . then you may imagine how she wept over her poor children . at length in her grief she went out , and the youngest kid ran with her . when they came to the meadow , there lay the wolf by the tree and snored so loud that the branches shook . she looked at him on every side and saw that something was moving and struggling in his gorged belly . ah , heavens , she said , is it possible that my poor children whom he has swallowed down for his supper , can be still alive . then the kid had to run home and fetch scissors , and a needle and thread and the goat cut open the monster's stomach , and hardly had she make one cut , than one little kid thrust its head out , and when she cut farther , all six sprang out one after another , and were all still alive , and had suffered no injury whatever , for in his greediness the monster had swallowed them down whole . what rejoicing there was . they embraced their dear mother , and jumped like a sailor at his wedding . the mother , however , said , now go and look for some big stones , and we will fill the wicked beast's stomach with them while he is still asleep . then the seven kids dragged the stones thither with all speed , and put as many of them into his stomach as they could get in , and the mother sewed him up again in the greatest haste , so that he was not aware of anything and never once stirred . when the wolf at length had had his fill of sleep , he got on his legs , and as the stones in his stomach made him very thirsty , he wanted to go to a well to drink . but when he began to walk and move about , the stones in his stomach knocked against each other and rattled . then cried he , what rumbles and tumbles against my poor bones . i thought 'twas six kids , but it feels like big stones . and when he got to the well and stooped over the water to drink , the heavy stones made him fall in , and he had to drown miserably . when the seven kids saw that , they came running to the spot and cried aloud , the wolf is dead . the wolf is dead , and danced for joy round about the well with their mother .