a sparrow had four young ones in a swallow's nest . when they were fledged , some naughty boys pulled out the nest , but fortunately all the birds got safely away in the high wind . then the old bird was grieved that as his sons had all gone out into the world , he had not first warned them of every kind of danger , and given them good instruction how to deal with each . in the autumn a great many sparrows assembled together in a wheatfield , and there the old bird met his four children again , and full of joy took them home with him . ah , my dear sons , how i have been worrying about you all through the summer , because you got away in the wind without my teaching . listen to my words , obey your father , and be well on your guard . little birds have to encounter great dangers . and then he asked the eldest where he had spent the summer , and how he had supported himself . i stayed in the gardens , and looked for caterpillars and small worms , until the cherries were ripe . ah , my son , said the father , tit-bits are not bad , but there is great risk about them . on that account take great care of yourself henceforth , and particularly when people are going about the gardens who carry long green poles which are hollow inside and have a little hole at the top . yes , father , but what if a little green leaf is stuck over the hole with wax , said the son . where have you seen that . in a merchant's garden , said the youngster . oh , my son , merchant folks are smart folks , said the father . if you have been among the children of the world , you have learned worldly craftiness enough , only see that you use it well , and do not be too confident . then he asked the next , where have you passed your time . at court , said the son . sparrows and silly little birds are of no use in that place . there one finds much gold , velvet , silk , armor , harnesses , sparrow-hawks , screech-owls and lanners . keep to the horses , stable where they winnow oats , or thresh , and then fortune may give you your daily grain of corn in peace . yes , father , said the son , but when the stable-boys make traps and fix their gins and snares in the straw , many a one is caught . where have you seen that , said the old bird . at court , among the stable-boys . oh , my son , court boys are bad boys . if you have been to court and among the lords , and have left no feathers there , you have learnt a fair amount , and will know very well how to go about the world , but look around you and above you , for the wolves often devour the wisest dogs . the father examined the third also , where did you seek your fortune . i have cast my tub and rope on the cart-roads and highways , and sometimes met with a grain of corn or barley . that is indeed dainty fare , said the father , but take care what you are about and look carefully around , especially when you see anyone stooping and about to pick up a stone , for then you have not much time to waste . that is true , said the son , but what if anyone should carry a bit of rock , or ore , ready beforehand in his breast or pocket . where have you seen that . among the miners , dear father . when they get out of the pit , they generally take little bits of ore with them . mining folks are working folks , and clever folks . if you have been among mining lads , you have seen and learnt something , but when you go thither beware , for many a sparrow has been brought to a bad end by a mining boy throwing a piece of cobalt . at length the father came to the youngest son , you , my dear chirping nestling , were always the silliest and weakest . stay with me , the world has many rough , wicked birds which have crooked beaks and long claws , and lie in wait for poor little birds and swallow them . keep with those of your own kind , and pick up little spiders and caterpillars from the trees , or the houses , and then you will live long in peace . my dear father , he who feeds himself without injury to other people fares well , and no sparrow-hawk , eagle , or kite will hurt him if he commits himself and his lawful food , evening and morning , faithfully to god , who is the creator and preserver of all forest and village birds , who likewise heareth the cry and prayer of the young ravens , for no sparrow or wren ever falls to the ground except by his will . where have you learnt this . the son answered , when the great blast of wind tore me away from you i came to a church , and there during the summer i have picked up the flies and spiders from the windows , and heard this discourse preached . the father of all sparrows fed me all the summer through , and kept me from all misfortune and from ferocious birds . indeed , my dear son , if you take refuge in the churches and help to clear away spiders and buzzing flies , and chirp unto god like the young ravens , and commend yourself to the eternal creator , all will be well with you , and that even if the whole world were full of wild malicious birds . he who to god commits his ways , in silence suffers , waits , and prays , preserves his faith and conscience pure , he is of god's protection sure .