there was once a peasant who had driven his cow to the fair , and sold her for seven talers . on the way home he had to pass a pond , and already from afar he heard the frogs crying , aik , aik , aik , aik . well , said he to himself , they are talking without rhyme or reason , it is seven that i have received , not eight . when he got to the water , he cried to them , stupid animals that you are . don't you know better than that . it is seven thalers and not eight . the frogs , however , stuck to their , aik aik , aik , aik . come , then , if you won't believe it , i can count it out to you . and he took his money out of his pocket and counted out the seven talers , always reckoning four and twenty groschen to a taler . the frogs , however , paid no attention to his reckoning , but still cried , aik , aik , aik , aik . what , cried the peasant , quite angry , if you know better than i , count it yourselves , and threw all the money at them into the water . he stood still and wanted to wait until they were through and had returned to him what was his , but the frogs maintained their opinion and cried continually , aik , aik , aik , aik . and besides that , did not throw the money out again . he still waited a long while until evening came on and he was forced to go home . then he abused the frogs and cried , you water-splashers , you thick-heads , you goggle-eyes , you have great mouths and can screech till you hurt one's ears , but you cannot count seven talers . do you think i'm going to stand here till you get through . and with that he went away , but the frogs still cried , aik , aik , aik , aik , after him till he went home sorely vexed . after a while he bought another cow , which he slaughtered , and he made the calculation that if he sold the meat well he might gain as much as the two cows were worth , and have the hide into the bargain . when therefore he got to the town with the meat , a great pack of dogs were gathered together in front of the gate , with a large greyhound at the head of them , which jumped at the meat , sniffed at it , and barked , wow , wow , wow . as there was no stopping him , the peasant said to him , yes , yes , i know quite well that you are saying wow , wow , wow , because you want some of the meat , but i should be in a fine state if i were to give it to you . the dog , however , answered nothing but wow , wow . will you promise not to devour it all then , and will you go bail for your companions . wow , wow , wow , said the dog . well , if you insist on it , i will leave it for you , i know you well , and know whom you serve , but this i tell you , i must have my money in three days or else it will go ill with you , you can just bring it out to me . thereupon he unloaded the meat and turned back again . the dogs fell upon it and loudly barked , wow , wow . the countryman , who heard them from afar , said to himself , hark , now they all want some , but the big one is responsible to me for it . when three days had passed , the countryman thought , to-night my money will be in my pocket , and was quite delighted . but no one would come and pay it . there is no trusting any one now , said he . at last he lost patience , and went into the town to the butcher and demanded his money . the butcher thought it was a joke , but the peasant said , jesting apart , i will have my money . did not the big dog bring you the whole of the slaughtered cow three days ago . then the butcher grew angry , snatched a broomstick and drove him out . wait , said the peasant , there is still some justice in the world , and went to the royal palace and begged for an audience . he was led before the king , who sat there with his daughter , and asked him what injury he had suffered . alas , said he , the frogs and the dogs have taken from me what is mine , and the butcher has paid me for it with the stick . and he related at full length what had happened . thereupon the king's daughter began to laugh heartily , and the king said to him , i cannot give you justice in this , but you shall have my daughter to wife for it - in her whole life she has never yet laughed as she has just done at you , and i have promised her to him who could make her laugh . you may thank god for your good fortune . oh , answered the peasant , i do not want her at all . i have a wife already , and she is one too many for me , when i go home , it is just as if i had a wife standing in every corner . then the king grew angry , and said , you are a boor . ah , lord king , replied the peasant , what can you expect from an ox , but beef . stop , answered the king , you shall have another reward . be off now , but come back in three days , and then you shall have five hundred counted out in full . when the peasant went out by the gate , the sentry said , you have made the king's daughter laugh , so you will certainly receive something good . yes , that is what i think , answered the peasant , five hundred are to be counted out to me . listen , said the soldier , give me some of it . what can you do with all that money . as it is you , said the peasant , you shall have two hundred , present yourself in three days , time before the king , and let it be paid to you . a jew , who was standing by and had heard the conversation , ran after the peasant , held him by the coat , and said , oh , wonder of god , what a child of fortune you are . i will change it for you , i will change it for you into small coins , what do you want with the great talers . jew , said the countryman , three hundred can you still have , give it to me at once in coin , in three days from this , you will be paid for it by the king . the jew was delighted with the small profit , and brought the sum in bad groschen , three of which were worth two good ones . after three days had passed , according to the king's command , the peasant went before the king . pull his coat off , said the latter , and he shall have his five hundred . ah , said the peasant , they no longer belong to me , i presented two hundred of them to the sentry , and three hundred the jew has changed for me , so by right nothing at all belongs to me . in the meantime the soldier and the jew entered and claimed what they had gained from the peasant , and they received the blows strictly counted out . the soldier bore it patiently and knew already how it tasted , but the jew said sorrowfully , alas , alas , are these the heavy talers . the king could not help laughing at the peasant , and when all his anger was spent , he said , as you have already lost your reward before it fell to your lot , i will give you compensation . go into my treasure chamber and get some money for yourself , as much as you will . the peasant did not need to be told twice , and stuffed into his big pockets whatsoever would go in . afterwards he went to an inn and counted out his money . the jew had crept after him and heard how he muttered to himself , that rogue of a king has cheated me after all , why could he not have given me the money himself , and then i should have known what i had . how can i tell now if what i have had the luck to put in my pockets is right or not . good heavens , said the jew to himself , that man is speaking disrespectfully of our lord the king , i will run and inform , and then i shall get a reward , and he will be punished as well . when the king heard of the peasant's words he fell into a passion , and commanded the jew to go and bring the offender to him . the jew ran to the peasant , you are to go at once to the lord king in the very clothes you have on . i know what's right better than that , answered the peasant , i shall have a new coat made first . do you think that a man with so much money in his pocket should go there in his ragged old coat . the jew , as he saw that the peasant would not stir without another coat , and as he feared that if the king's anger cooled , he himself would lose his reward , and the peasant his punishment , said , i will out of pure friendship lend you a coat for the short time . what people will not do for love . the peasant was contented with this , put the jew's coat on , and went off with him . the king reproached the countryman because of the evil speaking of which the jew had informed him . ah , said the peasant , what a jew says is always false - no true word ever comes out of his mouth . that rascal there is capable of maintaining that i have his coat on . what is that , shrieked the jew , is the coat not mine . have i not lent it to you out of pure friendship , in order that you might appear before the lord king . when the king heard that , he said , the jew has assuredly deceived one or the other of us , either myself or the peasant . and again he ordered something to be counted out to him in hard thalers . the peasant , however , went home in the good coat , with the good money in his pocket , and said to himself , this time i have made it .