once upon a time lived a peasant and his wife , and the parson of the village had a fancy for the wife , and had wished for a long while to spend a whole day happily with her . the peasant woman , too , was quite willing . one day , therefore , he said to the woman , listen , my dear friend , i have now thought of a way by which we can for once spend a whole day happily together . i'll tell you what . on wednesday , you must take to your bed , and tell your husband you are ill , and as long as you complain and act being ill properly , and go on doing so until sunday when i have to preach , i will then say in my sermon that whosoever has at home a sick child , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick brother or whosoever else it may be , and makes a pilgrimage to the gockerli hill in italy , where you can get a peck of laurel-leaves for a kreuzer , the sick child , the sick husband , the sick wife , the sick father , or sick mother , the sick sister , or whosoever else it may be , will be restored to health immediately . i will manage it , said the woman promptly . on the wednesday , therefore , the peasant woman took to her bed , and complained and lamented as agreed on , and her husband did everything for her that he could think of , but nothing did her any good , and when sunday came the woman said , i feel as ill as if i were going to die at once , but there is one thing i should like to do before my end - i should like to hear the parson's sermon that he is going to preach to-day . on that the peasant said , ah , my child , do not do it - you might make yourself worse if you were to get up . look , i will hear the sermon , and will attend to it very carefully , and will tell you everything the parson says . well , said the woman , go , then , and pay great attention , and repeat to me all that you hear . so the peasant heard the sermon , and the parson said , if any one had at home a sick child , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father a sick mother , a sick sister , brother or any one else , and would make a pilgimage to the gockerli hill in italy , where a peck of laurel-leaves costs a kreuzer , the sick child , sick husband , sick wife , sick father , sick mother , sick sister , brother , or whosoever else it might be , would be restored to health instantly , and whosoever wished to undertake the journey was to go to him after the service was over , and he would give him the sack for the laurel-leaves and the kreuzer . then no one was more rejoiced than the peasant , and after the service was over , he went at once to the parson , who gave him the bag for the laurel-leaves and the kreuzer . after that he went home , and even at the house door he cried , hurrah . dear wife , it is now almost the same thing as if you were well . the parson has preached to-day that whosoever had at home a sick child , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick sister , brother or whoever it might be , and would make a pilgrimage to the gockerli hill in italy , where a peck of laurel-leaves costs a kreuzer , the sick child , sick husband , sick wife , sick father , sick mother , sick sister , brother , or whosoever else it was , would be cured immediately , and now i have already got the bag and the kreuzer from the parson , and will at once begin my journey so that you may get well the faster , and thereupon he went away . he was hardly gone however before the woman got up , and the parson was there immediately . but now we will leave these two for a while , and follow the peasant , who walked on quickly without stopping , in order to get the sooner to the gockerli hill , and on his way he met his gossip . his gossip was an egg-merchant , and was just coming from the market , where he had sold his eggs . may you be blessed , said the gossip , where are you off to so fast . to all eternity , my friend , said the peasant , my wife is ill , and i have been to-day to hear the parson's sermon , and he preached that if any one had in his house a sick child , a sick husband , a sick wife , a sick father , a sick mother , a sick sister , brother or any one else , and made a pilgrimage to the gockerli hill in italy , where a peck of laurel-leaves costs a kreuzer , the sick child , the sick husband , the sick wife , the sick father , the sick mother , the sick sister , brother or whosoever else it was , would be cured immediately , and so i have got the bag for the laurel-leaves and the kreuzer from the parson , and now i am beginning my pilgrimage . but listen , gossip , said the egg-merchant to the peasant , are you , then , stupid enough to believe such a thing as that . don't you know what it means . the parson wants to spend a whole day alone with your wife in peace , so he has given you this job to do to get you out of the way . my word , said the peasant . how i'd like to know if that's true . come , then , said the gossip , i'll tell you what to do . get into my egg-basket and i will carry you home , and then you will see for yourself . so that was settled , and the gossip put the peasant into his egg-basket and carried him home . when they got to the house , hurrah . everything was already very merry there . the woman had already had nearly everything killed that was in the farmyard , and had made pancakes , and the parson was there , and had brought his fiddle with him . the gossip knocked at the door , and woman asked who was there . it is i , gossip , said the egg-merchant , give me shelter this night . i have not sold my eggs at the market , so now i have to carry them home again , and they are so heavy that i shall never be able to do it , for it is dark already . indeed , my friend , said the woman , you come at a very inconvenient time for me , but as you are here it can't be helped . come in , and take a seat there on the bench by the stove . then she placed the gossip and the basket which he carried on his back on the bench by the stove . the parson and the woman , however , were as merry as could be . at length the parson said , listen , my dear friend , you can sing beautifully . sing something to me . oh , said the woman , i cannot sing now . in my young days indeed i could sing well enough , but that's all over now . come , said the parson once more , do sing some little song . on that the woman began and sang , i've sent my husband away from me to the gockerli hill in italy . thereupon the parson sang , i wish 'twas a year before he came back , i'd never ask him for the laurel-leaf sack . hallelujah . then the gossip who was in the background began to sing - but i ought to tell you the peasant was called hildebrand - so the gossip sang , what are you doing , my hildebrand dear , there on the bench by the stove so near . hallelujah . and then the peasant sang from his basket , all singing i ever shall hate from this day , and here in this basket no longer i'll stay . hallelujah . and he climbed out of the basket , and flogged the parson out of the house .