in olden times when wishing still helped one , there lived a king whose daughters were all beautiful , but the youngest was so beautiful that the sun itself , which has seen so much , was astonished whenever it shone in her face . close by the king's castle lay a great dark forest , and under an old lime-tree in the forest was a well , and when the day was very warm , the king's child went out into the forest and sat down by the side of the cool fountain , and when she was bored she took a golden ball , and threw it up on high and caught it , and this ball was her favorite plaything . now it so happened that on one occasion the princess's golden ball did not fall into the little hand which she was holding up for it , but on to the ground beyond , and rolled straight into the water . the king's daughter followed it with her eyes , but it vanished , and the well was deep , so deep that the bottom could not be seen . at this she began to cry , and cried louder and louder , and could not be comforted . and as she thus lamented someone said to her , " what ails you , king's daughter ? you weep so that even a stone would show pity . " she looked round to the side from whence the voice came , and saw a frog stretching forth its big , ugly head from the water . " ah , old water-splasher , is it you , " she said , " i am weeping for my golden ball , which has fallen into the well . " " be quiet , and do not weep , " answered the frog , " i can help you , but what will you give me if i bring your plaything up again ? " " whatever you will have , dear frog , " said she , " my clothes , my pearls and jewels , and even the golden crown which i am wearing . " the frog answered , " i do not care for your clothes , your pearls and jewels , nor for your golden crown , but if you will love me and let me be your companion and play-fellow , and sit by you at your little table , and eat off your little golden plate , and drink out of your little cup , and sleep in your little bed - if you will promise me this i will go down below , and bring you your golden ball up again . " " oh yes , " said she , " i promise you all you wish , if you will but bring me my ball back again . " but she thought , " how the silly frog does talk . all he does is to sit in the water with the other frogs , and croak . he can be no companion to any human being . " but the frog when he had received this promise , put his head into the water and sank down ; and in a short while came swimmming up again with the ball in his mouth , and threw it on the grass . the king's daughter was delighted to see her pretty plaything once more , and picked it up , and ran away with it . " wait , wait , " said the frog . " take me with you . i can't run as you can . " but what did it avail him to scream his croak , croak , after her , as loudly as he could . she did not listen to it , but ran home and soon forgot the poor frog , who was forced to go back into his well again . the next day when she had seated herself at table with the king and all the courtiers , and was eating from her little golden plate , something came creeping splish splash , splish splash , up the marble staircase , and when it had got to the top , it knocked at the door and cried , " princess , youngest princess , open the door for me . " she ran to see who was outside , but when she opened the door , there sat the frog in front of it . then she slammed the door to , in great haste , sat down to dinner again , and was quite frightened . the king saw plainly that her heart was beating violently , and said , " my child , what are you so afraid of ? is there perchance a giant outside who wants to carry you away ? " " ah , no , " replied she . " it is no giant but a disgusting frog . " " what does a frog want with you ? " " ah , dear father , yesterday as i was in the forest sitting by the well , playing , my golden ball fell into the water . and because i cried so , the frog brought it out again for me , and because he so insisted , i promised him he should be my companion , but i never thought he would be able to come out of his water . and now he is outside there , and wants to come in to me . " in the meantime it knocked a second time , and cried , " princess , youngest princess , open the door for me , do you not know what you said to me yesterday by the cool waters of the well . princess , youngest princess , open the door for me . " then said the king , " that which you have promised must you perform . go and let him in . " she went and opened the door , and the frog hopped in and followed her , step by step , to her chair . there he sat and cried , " lift me up beside you . " she delayed , until at last the king commanded her to do it . once the frog was on the chair he wanted to be on the table , and when he was on the table he said , " now , push your little golden plate nearer to me that we may eat together . " she did this , but it was easy to see that she did not do it willingly . the frog enjoyed what he ate , but almost every mouthful she took choked her . at length he said , " i have eaten and am satisfied , now i am tired , carry me into your little room and make your little silken bed ready , and we will both lie down and go to sleep . " the king's daughter began to cry , for she was afraid of the cold frog which she did not like to touch , and which was now to sleep in her pretty , clean little bed . but the king grew angry and said , " he who helped you when you were in trouble ought not afterwards to be despised by you . " so she took hold of the frog with two fingers , carried him upstairs , and put him in a corner , but when she was in bed he crept to her and said , " i am tired , i want to sleep as well as you , lift me up or i will tell your father . " at this she was terribly angry , and took him up and threw him with all her might against the wall . " now , will you be quiet , odious frog , " said she . but when he fell down he was no frog but a king's son with kind and beautiful eyes . he by her father's will was now her dear companion and husband . then he told her how he had been bewitched by a wicked witch , and how no one could have delivered him from the well but herself , and that to-morrow they would go together into his kingdom . then they went to sleep , and next morning when the sun awoke them , a carriage came driving up with eight white horses , which had white ostrich feathers on their heads , and were harnessed with golden chains , and behind stood the young king's servant faithful henry . faithful henry had been so unhappy when his master was changed into a frog , that he had caused three iron bands to be laid round his heart , lest it should burst with grief and sadness . the carriage was to conduct the young king into his kingdom . faithful henry helped them both in , and placed himself behind again , and was full of joy because of this deliverance . and when they had driven a part of the way the king's son heard a cracking behind him as if something had broken . so he turned round and cried , " henry , the carriage is breaking . " " no , master , it is not the carriage . it is a band from my heart , which was put there in my great pain when you were a frog and imprisoned in the well . " again and once again while they were on their way something cracked , and each time the king's son thought the carriage was breaking , but it was only the bands which were springing from the heart of faithful henry because his master was set free and was happy .