there were once a man and a woman who had long in vain wished for a child . at length the woman hoped that god was about to grant her desire . these people had a little window at the back of their house from which a splendid garden could be seen , which was full of the most beautiful flowers and herbs . it was , however , surrounded by a high wall , and no one dared to go into it because it belonged to an enchantress , who had great power and was dreaded by all the world . one day the woman was standing by this window and looking down into the garden , when she saw a bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion - rapunzel , and it looked so fresh and green that she longed for it , and had the greatest desire to eat some . this desire increased every day , and as she knew that she could not get any of it , she quite pined away , and began to look pale and miserable . then her husband was alarmed , and asked , what ails you , dear wife . ah , she replied , if i can't eat some of the rampion , which is in the garden behind our house , i shall die . the man , who loved her , thought , sooner than let your wife die , bring her some of the rampion yourself , let it cost what it will . at twilight , he clambered down over the wall into the garden of the enchantress , hastily clutched a handful of rampion , and took it to his wife . she at once made herself a salad of it , and ate it greedily . it tasted so good to her - so very good , that the next day she longed for it three times as much as before . if he was to have any rest , her husband must once more descend into the garden . in the gloom of evening , therefore , he let himself down again . but when he had clambered down the wall he was terribly afraid , for he saw the enchantress standing before him . how can you dare , said she with angry look , descend into my garden and steal my rampion like a thief . you shall suffer for it . ah , answered he , let mercy take the place of justice , i only made up my mind to do it out of necessity . my wife saw your rampion from the window , and felt such a longing for it that she would have died if she had not got some to eat . then the enchantress allowed her anger to be softened , and said to him , if the case be as you say , i will allow you to take away with you as much rampion as you will , only i make one condition , you must give me the child which your wife will bring into the world . it shall be well treated , and i will care for it like a mother . the man in his terror consented to everything , and when the woman was brought to bed , the enchantress appeared at once , gave the child the name of rapunzel , and took it away with her . rapunzel grew into the most beautiful child under the sun . when she was twelve years old , the enchantress shut her into a tower , which lay in a forest , and had neither stairs nor door , but quite at the top was a little window . when the enchantress wanted to go in , she placed herself beneath it and cried , rapunzel , rapunzel , let down your hair to me . rapunzel had magnificent long hair , fine as spun gold , and when she heard the voice of the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses , wound them round one of the hooks of the window above , and then the hair fell twenty ells down , and the enchantress climbed up by it . after a year or two , it came to pass that the king's son rode through the forest and passed by the tower . then he heard a song , which was so charming that he stood still and listened . this was rapunzel , who in her solitude passed her time in letting her sweet voice resound . the king's son wanted to climb up to her , and looked for the door of the tower , but none was to be found . he rode home , but the singing had so deeply touched his heart , that every day he went out into the forest and listened to it . once when he was thus standing behind a tree , he saw that an enchantress came there , and he heard how she cried , rapunzel , rapunzel , let down your hair . then rapunzel let down the braids of her hair , and the enchantress climbed up to her . if that is the ladder by which one mounts , i too will try my fortune , said he , and the next day when it began to grow dark , he went to the tower and cried , rapunzel , rapunzel , let down your hair . immediately the hair fell down and the king's son climbed up . at first rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man , such as her eyes had never yet beheld , came to her . but the king's son began to talk to her quite like a friend , and told her that his heart had been so stirred that it had let him have no rest , and he had been forced to see her . then rapunzel lost her fear , and when he asked her if she would take him for her husband , and she saw that he was young and handsome , she thought , he will love me more than old dame gothel does . and she said yes , and laid her hand in his . she said , i will willingly go away with you , but i do not know how to get down . bring with you a skein of silk every time that you come , and i will weave a ladder with it , and when that is ready i will descend , and you will take me on your horse . they agreed that until that time he should come to her every evening , for the old woman came by day . the enchantress remarked nothing of this , until once rapunzel said to her , tell me , dame gothel , how it happens that you are so much heavier for me to draw up than the young king's son - he is with me in a moment . ah . you wicked child , cried the enchantress . what do i hear you say . i thought i had separated you from all the world , and yet you have deceived me . in her anger she clutched rapunzel's beautiful tresses , wrapped them twice round her left hand , seized a pair of scissors with the right , and snip , snap , they were cut off , and the lovely braids lay on the ground . and she was so pitiless that she took poor rapunzel into a desert where she had to live in great grief and misery . on the same day that she cast out rapunzel , however , the enchantress fastened the braids of hair , which she had cut off , to the hook of the window , and when the king's son came and cried , rapunzel , rapunzel , let down your hair , she let the hair down . the king's son ascended , but instead of finding his dearest rapunzel , he found the enchantress , who gazed at him with wicked and venomous looks . aha , she cried mockingly , you would fetch your dearest , but the beautiful bird sits no longer singing in the nest . the cat has got it , and will scratch out your eyes as well . rapunzel is lost to you . you will never see her again . the king's son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . he escaped with his life , but the thorns into which he fell pierced his eyes . then he wandered quite blind about the forest , ate nothing but roots and berries , and did naught but lament and weep over the loss of his dearest wife . thus he roamed about in misery for some years , and at length came to the desert where rapunzel , with the twins to which she had given birth , a boy and a girl , lived in wretchedness . he heard a voice , and it seemed so familiar to him that he went towards it , and when he approached , rapunzel knew him and fell on his neck and wept . two of her tears wetted his eyes and they grew clear again , and he could see with them as before . he led her to his kingdom where he was joyfully received , and they lived for a long time afterwards , happy and contented .