in olden times every sound still had its meaning and significance . when the smith's hammer resounded , it cried , " strike away , strike away . " when the carpenter's plane grated , it said , " here goes , here goes . " if the mill wheel began to clack , it said , " help , lord god , help , lord god . " and if the miller was a cheat and set the mill a-going , it spoke high german , and first asked slowly , " who is there ? who is there ? " and then answered quickly , " the miller , the miller . " and at last quite in a hurry , " he steals bravely , he steals bravely , three pecks in a bushel . " at this time the birds also had their own language which every one understood . now it only sounds like chirping , screeching , and whistling , and sometimes like music without words . it came into the birds' mind , however , that they would no longer be without a ruler , and would choose one of themselves to be their king . one alone among them , the green plover , was opposed to this . he had lived free and would die free , and anxiously flying hither and thither , he cried , " where shall i go ? where shall i go ? " he retired into a solitary and unfrequented marsh , and showed himself no more among his fellows . the birds now wished to discuss the matter , and on a fine may morning they all gathered together from the woods and fields , eagles and chaffinches , owls and crows , larks and sparrows , how can i name them all . even the cuckoo came , and the hoopoe , his clerk , who is so called because he is always heard a few days before him , and a very small bird which as yet had no name , mingled with the band . the hen , which by some accident had heard nothing of the whole matter , was astonished at the great assemblage . what , what , what is going to be done , she cackled . but the cock calmed his beloved hen , and said , only a lot of rich people , and told her what they had on hand . it was decided that the one who could fly the highest should be king . a tree-frog which was sitting among the bushes , when he heard that , cried a warning , no , no , no , no , because he thought that many tears would be shed because of this . but the crow said , caw , caw , and that all would pass off peaceably . it was now determined that on this fine morning they should at once begin to ascend , so that hereafter no one should be able to say , i could easily have flown much higher , but the evening came on , and i could do no more . on a given signal , therefore , the whole troop rose up in the air . the dust ascended from the land , and there was tremendous fluttering and whirring and beating of wings , and it looked as if a black cloud was rising up . the little birds were soon left behind . they could go no farther , and fell back to the ground . the larger birds held out longer , but none could equal the eagle , who mounted so high that he could have plucked the eyes out of the sun . and when he saw that the others could not get up to him , he thought , why should you fly still higher . you are the king , and began to let himself down again . the birds beneath him at once cried to him , you must be our king , no one has flown so high as you . except me , screamed the little fellow without a name , who had crept into the breast-feathers of the eagle . and as he was not at all tired , he rose up and mounted so high that he reached heaven itself . however , when he had gone as far as this , he folded his wings together , and called down with clear and penetrating voice , i am king . i am king . you , our king , cried the birds angrily . you have managed it by trick and cunning . so they made another condition . he should be king who could go down lowest in the ground . how the goose did flap about with its broad breast when it was once more on land . how quickly the cock scratched a hole . the duck came off the worst of all , for she leapt into a ditch , but sprained her legs , and waddled away to a neighboring pond , crying , cheating , cheating . the little bird without a name , however , sought out a mouse-hole , slipped down into it , and cried out of it with his small voice , i am king . i am king . you our king , cried the birds still more angrily . do you think your cunning shall prevail . they determined to keep him a prisoner in the hole and starve him out . the owl was placed as sentinel in front of it , and was not to let the rascal out if she had any value for her life . when evening was come and all the birds were feeling very tired after the exertion of so much flying , they went to bed with their wives and children . the owl alone remained standing by the mouse-hole , gazing steadfastly into it with her great eyes . then she , too , grew tired and thought to herself , you might certainly shut one eye , you will still watch with the other , and the little villain shall not come out of his hole . so she shut one eye , and with the other looked straight at the mouse-hole . the little fellow put his head out and peeped , and wanted to slip away , but the owl came forward immediately , and he drew his head back again . then the owl opened the one eye again , and shut the other , intending to shut them in turn all through the night . but when she next shut the one eye , she forgot to open the other , and as soon as both her eyes were shut she fell asleep . the little fellow soon observed that , and slipped away . from that day forth , the owl has never dared to show herself by daylight , for if she does the other birds chase her and pluck her feathers out . she flies out only by night , but hates and pursues mice because they make such ugly holes . the little bird , too , is very unwilling to let himself be seen , because he is afraid it will cost him his life if he is caught . he steals about in the hedges , and when he is quite safe , he sometimes cries , i am king , and for this reason , the other birds call him in mockery , king of the hedges . no one , however , was so happy as the lark at not having to obey the little king . as soon as the sun appears , she ascends high in the air and cries , ah , how beautiful that is . beautiful that is . beautiful'beautiful . ah , how beautiful that is .