three army surgeons who thought they knew their art perfectly were traveling about the world , and they came to an inn where they wanted to pass the night . the host asked whence they came , and whither they were going . we are roaming about the world and practising our art . show me just once what you can do , said the host . then the first said he would cut off his hand , and put it on again early next morning . the second said he would tear out his heart , and replace it next morning . the third said he would gouge out his eyes and heal them again next morning . if you can do that , said the innkeeper , you have learnt everything . they , however , had a salve , with which they rubbed themselves , which joined parts together , and they constantly carried with them the little bottle in which it was . then they cut the hand , heart and eyes from their bodies as they had said they would , and laid them all together on a plate , and gave it to the innkeeper . the innkeeper gave it to a servant-girl who was to set it in the cupboard , and take good care of it . secretly , however , the girl had a lover , who was a soldier . when therefore the innkeeper , the three army surgeons , and everyone else in the house were asleep , the soldier came and wanted something to eat . the girl opened the cupboard and brought him some food , and in her love forgot to shut the cupboard-door again . she seated herself at the table by her lover , and they chatted away together . while she sat so contentedly there , thinking of no ill luck , the cat came creeping in , found the cupboard open , took the hand and heart and eyes of the three army surgeons , and ran off with them . when the soldier had done eating , and the girl was taking away the things and going to shut the cupboard , she saw that the plate which the innkeeper had given her to take care of , was empty . then she said in a fright to her lover , ah , miserable girl , what shall i do . the hand is gone , the heart and the eyes are gone too , what will become of me in the morning . be easy , said he , i will help you out of your trouble . there is a thief hanging outside on the gallows , i will cut off his hand . which hand was it . the right one . then the girl gave him a sharp knife , and he went and cut the poor sinner's right hand off , and brought it to her . after this he caught the cat and gouged its eyes out , and now nothing but the heart was missing . have you not been slaughtering , and are not the dead pigs in the cellar , said he . yes , said the girl . that's fine , said the soldier , and he went down and fetched a pig's heart . the girl placed all together on the plate , and put it in the cupboard , and when after this her lover took leave of her , she went quietly to bed . in the morning when the three army surgeons got up , they told the girl she was to bring them the plate on which the hand , heart , and eyes were lying . then she brought it out of the cupboard , and the first fixed the thief's hand on and smeared it with his salve , and it promptly grew to his arm . the second took the cat's eyes and put them in his own head . the third fixed the pig's heart firm in the place where his own had been , and the innkeeper stood by , admired their skill , and said he had never yet seen such a thing as that done , and would sing their praises and recommend them to everyone . then they paid their bill , and traveled further . as they were on their way , the one with the pig's heart did not stay with them at all , but wherever there was a corner he ran to it , and rooted about in it with his nose as pigs do . the others wanted to hold him back by the tail of his coat , but that did no good . he tore himself loose , and ran wherever the dirt was deepest . the second also behaved very strangely . he rubbed his eyes , and said to the others , comrades , what has happened . these are not my eyes . i don't see at all . will one of you lead me , so that i do not fall . then with difficulty they traveled on till evening , when they reached another inn . they went into the bar together , and there at a table in the corner sat a rich man counting money . the one with the thief's hand walked round about him , made a few jerky movements with his arm , and at last when the stranger turned away , snatched at the pile of money , and took a handful from it . one of them saw this , and said , comrade , what are you about . you must not steal , shame on you . eh , said he , but what can i do . my hand twitches , and i am forced to snatch things whether i will or not . after this , they lay down to sleep , and while they were lying there it was so dark that no one could see his own hand . all at once the one with the cat's eyes awoke , aroused the others , and said , brothers , just look up , do you see the white mice running about there . the two sat up , but could see nothing . then said he , things are not right with us , we have not got back again what is ours . we must return to the innkeeper , he has deceived us . so they went back the next morning , and told the host they had not received what was their own , that the first had a thief's hand , the second cat's eyes , and the third a pig's heart . the innkeeper said that the girl must be to blame for that , and was going to call her , but when she had seen the three coming , she had run out by the backdoor , and not come back . then the three said he must give them a great deal of money , or they would set the red cock on his roof . - the symbol of a red cock for fire is of remote antiquity . - he gave them what he had , and whatever he could raise , and the three went away with it . it was enough for the rest of their lives , but they would rather have had their own rightful organs .