cinderella the wife of a rich man fell sick , and as she felt that her end was drawing near , she called her only daughter to her bedside and said , dear child , be good and pious , and then the good god will always protect you , and i will look down on you from heaven and be near you . thereupon she closed her eyes and departed . every day the maiden went out to her mother's grave , and wept , and she remained pious and good . when winter came the snow spread a white sheet over the grave , and by the time the spring sun had drawn it off again , the man had taken another wife . the woman had brought with her into the house two daughters , who were beautiful and fair of face , but vile and black of heart . now began a bad time for the poor step-child . is the stupid goose to sit in the parlor with us , they said . he who wants to eat bread must earn it . out with the kitchen-wench . they took her pretty clothes away from her , put an old grey bedgown on her , and gave her wooden shoes . just look at the proud princess , how decked out she is , they cried , and laughed , and led her into the kitchen . there she had to do hard work from morning till night , get up before daybreak , carry water , light fires , cook and wash . besides this , the sisters did her every imaginable injury - they mocked her and emptied her peas and lentils into the ashes , so that she was forced to sit and pick them out again . in the evening when she had worked till she was weary she had no bed to go to , but had to sleep by the hearth in the cinders . and as on that account she always looked dusty and dirty , they called her cinderella . it happened that the father was once going to the fair , and he asked his two step-daughters what he should bring back for them . beautiful dresses , said one , pearls and jewels , said the second . and you , cinderella , said he , what will you have . father break off for me the first branch which knocks against your hat on your way home . so he bought beautiful dresses , pearls and jewels for his two step-daughters , and on his way home , as he was riding through a green thicket , a hazel twig brushed against him and knocked off his hat . then he broke off the branch and took it with him . when he reached home he gave his step-daughters the things which they had wished for , and to cinderella he gave the branch from the hazel-bush . cinderella thanked him , went to her mother's grave and planted the branch on it , and wept so much that the tears fell down on it and watered it . and it grew and became a handsome tree . thrice a day cinderella went and sat beneath it , and wept and prayed , and a little white bird always came on the tree , and if cinderella expressed a wish , the bird threw down to her what she had wished for . it happened , however , that the king gave orders for a festival which was to last three days , and to which all the beautiful young girls in the country were invited , in order that his son might choose himself a bride . when the two step-sisters heard that they too were to appear among the number , they were delighted , called cinderella and said , comb our hair for us , brush our shoes and fasten our buckles , for we are going to the wedding at the king's palace . cinderella obeyed , but wept , because she too would have liked to go with them to the dance , and begged her step-mother to allow her to do so . you go , cinderella , said she , covered in dust and dirt as you are , and would go to the festival . you have no clothes and shoes , and yet would dance . as , however , cinderella went on asking , the step-mother said at last , i have emptied a dish of lentils into the ashes for you , if you have picked them out again in two hours , you shall go with us . the maiden went through the back-door into the garden , and called , you tame pigeons , you turtle-doves , and all you birds beneath the sky , come and help me to pick the good into the pot , the bad into the crop . then two white pigeons came in by the kitchen window , and afterwards the turtle-doves , and at last all the birds beneath the sky , came whirring and crowding in , and alighted amongst the ashes . and the pigeons nodded with their heads and began pick , pick , pick , pick , and the rest began also pick , pick , pick , pick , and gathered all the good grains into the dish . hardly had one hour passed before they had finished , and all flew out again . then the girl took the dish to her step-mother , and was glad , and believed that now she would be allowed to go with them to the festival . but the step-mother said , no , cinderella , you have no clothes and you can not dance . you would only be laughed at . and as cinderella wept at this , the step-mother said , if you can pick two dishes of lentils out of the ashes for me in one hour , you shall go with us . and she thought to herself , that she most certainly cannot do again . when the step-mother had emptied the two dishes of lentils amongst the ashes , the maiden went through the back-door into the garden and cried , you tame pigeons , you turtle-doves , and all you birds beneath the sky , come and help me to pick the good into the pot , the bad into the crop . then two white pigeons came in by the kitchen-window , and afterwards the turtle-doves , and at length all the birds beneath the sky , came whirring and crowding in , and alighted amongst the ashes . and the doves nodded with their heads and began pick , pick , pick , pick , and the others began also pick , pick , pick , pick , and gathered all the good seeds into the dishes , and before half an hour was over they had already finished , and all flew out again . then the maiden was delighted , and believed that she might now go with them to the wedding . but the step-mother said , all this will not help . you cannot go with us , for you have no clothes and can not dance . we should be ashamed of you . on this she turned her back on cinderella , and hurried away with her two proud daughters . as no one was now at home , cinderella went to her mother's grave beneath the hazel-tree , and cried - shiver and quiver , little tree , silver and gold throw down over me . then the bird threw a gold and silver dress down to her , and slippers embroidered with silk and silver . she put on the dress with all speed , and went to the wedding . her step-sisters and the step-mother however did not know her , and thought she must be a foreign princess , for she looked so beautiful in the golden dress . they never once thought of cinderella , and believed that she was sitting at home in the dirt , picking lentils out of the ashes . the prince approached her , took her by the hand and danced with her . he would dance with no other maiden , and never let loose of her hand , and if any one else came to invite her , he said , this is my partner . she danced till it was evening , and then she wanted to go home . but the king's son said , i will go with you and bear you company , for he wished to see to whom the beautiful maiden belonged . she escaped from him , however , and sprang into the pigeon-house . the king's son waited until her father came , and then he told him that the unknown maiden had leapt into the pigeon-house . the old man thought , can it be cinderella . and they had to bring him an axe and a pickaxe that he might hew the pigeon-house to pieces , but no one was inside it . and when they got home cinderella lay in her dirty clothes among the ashes , and a dim little oil-lamp was burning on the mantle-piece , for cinderella had jumped quickly down from the back of the pigeon-house and had run to the little hazel-tree , and there she had taken off her beautiful clothes and laid them on the grave , and the bird had taken them away again , and then she had seated herself in the kitchen amongst the ashes in her grey gown . next day when the festival began afresh , and her parents and the step-sisters had gone once more , cinderella went to the hazel-tree and said - shiver and quiver , my little tree , silver and gold throw down over me . then the bird threw down a much more beautiful dress than on the preceding day . and when cinderella appeared at the wedding in this dress , every one was astonished at her beauty . the king's son had waited until she came , and instantly took her by the hand and danced with no one but her . when others came and invited her , he said , this is my partner . when evening came she wished to leave , and the king's son followed her and wanted to see into which house she went . but she sprang away from him , and into the garden behind the house . therein stood a beautiful tall tree on which hung the most magnificent pears . she clambered so nimbly between the branches like a squirrel that the king's son did not know where she was gone . he waited until her father came , and said to him , the unknown maiden has escaped from me , and i believe she has climbed up the pear-tree . the father thought , can it be cinderella . and had an axe brought and cut the tree down , but no one was on it . and when they got into the kitchen , cinderella lay there among the ashes , as usual , for she had jumped down on the other side of the tree , had taken the beautiful dress to the bird on the little hazel-tree , and put on her grey gown . on the third day , when the parents and sisters had gone away , cinderella went once more to her mother's grave and said to the little tree - shiver and quiver , my little tree , silver and gold throw down over me . and now the bird threw down to her a dress which was more splendid and magnificent than any she had yet had , and the slippers were golden . and when she went to the festival in the dress , no one knew how to speak for astonishment . the king's son danced with her only , and if any one invited her to dance , he said this is my partner . when evening came , cinderella wished to leave , and the king's son was anxious to go with her , but she escaped from him so quickly that he could not follow her . the king's son , however , had employed a ruse , and had caused the whole staircase to be smeared with pitch , and there , when she ran down , had the maiden's left slipper remained stuck . the king's son picked it up , and it was small and dainty , and all golden . next morning , he went with it to the father , and said to him , no one shall be my wife but she whose foot this golden slipper fits . then were the two sisters glad , for they had pretty feet . the eldest went with the shoe into her room and wanted to try it on , and her mother stood by . but she could not get her big toe into it , and the shoe was too small for her . then her mother gave her a knife and said , cut the toe off , when you are queen you will have no more need to go on foot . the maiden cut the toe off , forced the foot into the shoe , swallowed the pain , and went out to the king's son . then he took her on his his horse as his bride and rode away with her . they were obliged , however , to pass the grave , and there , on the hazel-tree , sat the two pigeons and cried - turn and peep , turn and peep , there's blood within the shoe , the shoe it is too small for her , the true bride waits for you . then he looked at her foot and saw how the blood was trickling from it . he turned his horse round and took the false bride home again , and said she was not the true one , and that the other sister was to put the shoe on . then this one went into her chamber and got her toes safely into the shoe , but her heel was too large . so her mother gave her a knife and said , cut a bit off your heel , when you are queen you will have no more need to go on foot . the maiden cut a bit off her heel , forced her foot into the shoe , swallowed the pain , and went out to the king's son . he took her on his horse as his bride , and rode away with her , but when they passed by the hazel-tree , the two pigeons sat on it and cried - turn and peep , turn and peep , there's blood within the shoe , the shoe it is too small for her , the true bride waits for you . he looked down at her foot and saw how the blood was running out of her shoe , and how it had stained her white stocking quite red . then he turned his horse and took the false bride home again . this also is not the right one , said he , have you no other daughter . no , said the man , there is still a little stunted kitchen-wench which my late wife left behind her , but she cannot possibly be the bride . the king's son said he was to send her up to him , but the mother answered , oh , no , she is much too dirty , she cannot show herself . but he absolutely insisted on it , and cinderella had to be called . she first washed her hands and face clean , and then went and bowed down before the king's son , who gave her the golden shoe . then she seated herself on a stool , drew her foot out of the heavy wooden shoe , and put it into the slipper , which fitted like a glove . and when she rose up and the king's son looked at her face he recognized the beautiful maiden who had danced with him and cried , that is the true bride . the step-mother and the two sisters were horrified and became pale with rage , he , however , took cinderella on his horse and rode away with her . as they passed by the hazel-tree , the two white doves cried - turn and peep , turn and peep , no blood is in the shoe , the shoe is not too small for her , the true bride rides with you , and when they had cried that , the two came flying down and placed themselves on cinderella's shoulders , one on the right , the other on the left , and remained sitting there . when the wedding with the king's son was to be celebrated , the two false sisters came and wanted to get into favor with cinderella and share her good fortune . when the betrothed couple went to church , the elder was at the right side and the younger at the left , and the pigeons pecked out one eye from each of them . afterwards as they came back the elder was at the left , and the younger at the right , and then the pigeons pecked out the other eye from each . and thus , for their wickedness and falsehood , they were punished with blindness all their days .