in olden times , when the lord himself still used to walk about on this earth amongst men , it once happened that he was tired and overtaken by the darkness before he could reach an inn . now there stood on the road before him two houses facing each other , the one large and beautiful , the other small and poor . the large one belonged to a rich man , and the small one to a poor man . then the lord thought , i shall be no burden to the rich man . i will stay the night with him . then the rich man heard someone knocking at his door , he opened the window and asked the stranger what he wanted . the lord answered , i only ask for a night's lodging . then the rich man looked at the traveler from head to foot , and as the lord was wearing common clothes , and did not look like one who had much money in his pocket , he shook his head , and said , no , i cannot take you in , my rooms are full of herbs and seeds . and if i were to lodge everyone who knocked at my door , i might very soon go begging myself . go somewhere else for a lodging , and with this he shut down the window and left the lord standing there . so the lord turned his back on the rich man , and went across to the small house and knocked . he had hardly done so when the poor man opened the little door and bade the traveler come in . pass the night with me , it is already dark , said he . you cannot go any further to-night . this pleased the lord , and he went in . the poor man's wife shook hands with him , and welcomed him , and said he was to make himself at home and put up with what they had got . they had not much to offer him , but what they had they would give him with all their hearts . then she put the potatoes on the fire , and while they were boiling , she milked the goat , that they might have a little milk with them . when the cloth was laid , the lord sat down with the man and his wife , and he enjoyed their coarse food , for there were happy faces at the table . when they had had supper and it was bed-time , the woman called her husband apart and said , listen , dear husband , let us make up a bed of straw for ourselves to-night , and then the poor traveler can sleep in our bed and have a good rest , for he has been walking the whole day through , and that makes one weary . with all my heart , he answered , i will go and offer it to him . and he went to the stranger and invited him , if he had no objection , to sleep in their bed and rest his limbs properly . but the lord was unwilling to take their bed from the two old folks . however , they would not be satisfied , until at length he did it and lay down in their bed , while they themselves lay on some straw on the ground . next morning they got up before daybreak , and made as good a breakfast as they could for the guest . when the sun shone in through the little window , and the lord had got up , he again ate with them , and then prepared to set out on his journey . but as he was standing at the door he turned round and said , as you are so kind and good , you may wish three things for yourselves and i will grant them . then the man said , what else should i wish for but eternal happiness , and that we two , as long as we live , may be healthy and have every day our daily bread . for the third wish , i do not know what to have . and the lord said to him , will you wish for a new house instead of this old one . oh , yes , said the man . if i can have that , too , i should like it very much . and the lord fulfilled his wish , and changed their old house into a new one , again gave them his blessing , and went on . the sun was high when the rich man got up and leaned out of his window and saw , on the opposite side of the way , a new clean-looking house with red tiles and bright windows where the old hut used to be . he was very much astonished , and called his wife and said to her , tell me , what can have happened . last night there was a miserable little hut standing there , and to-day there is a beautiful new house . run over and see how that has come to pass . so his wife went and asked the poor man , and he said to her , yesterday evening a traveler came here and asked for a night's lodging , and this morning when he took leave of us he granted us three wishes - eternal happiness , health during this life and our daily bread as well , and besides this , a beautiful new house instead of our old hut . when the rich man's wife heard this , she ran back in haste and told her husband how it had happened . the man said , i could tear myself to pieces . if i had but known that . that traveler came to our house too , and wanted to sleep here , and i sent him away . quick , said his wife , get on your horse . you can still catch the man up , and then you must ask to have three wishes granted to you also . the rich man followed the good counsel and galloped away on his horse , and soon came up with the lord . he spoke to him softly and pleasantly , and begged him not to take it amiss that he had not let him in directly . he was looking for the front-door key , and in the meantime the stranger had gone away . if he returned the same way he must come and stay with him . yes , said the lord . if i ever come back again , i will do so . then the rich man asked if might not wish for three things too , as his neighbor had done . yes , said the lord , he might , but it would not be to his advantage , and he had better not wish for anything . but the rich man thought that he could easily ask for something which would add to his happiness , if he only knew that it would be granted . so the lord said to him , ride home , then , and three wishes which you shall make , shall be fulfilled . the rich man had now gained what he wanted , so he rode home , and began to consider what he should wish for . as he was thus thinking he let the bridle fall , and the horse began to caper about , so that he was continually disturbed in his meditations , and could not collect his thoughts at all . he patted its neck , and said , gently , lisa , but the horse only began new tricks . then at last he was angry , and cried quite impatiently , i wish your neck was broken . directly he had said the words , down the horse fell on the ground , and there it lay dead and never moved again . and thus was his first wish fulfilled . as he was miserly by nature , he did not like to leave the harness lying there . so he cut it off , and put it on his back . and now he had to go on foot . i have still two wishes left , said he , and comforted himself with that thought . and now as he was walking slowly through the sand , and the sun was burning hot at noon-day , he grew quite bad-tempered and angry . the saddle hurt his back , and he had not yet any idea what to wish for . if i were to wish for all the riches and treasures in the world , said he to himself , i should still to think of all kinds of other things later on . i know that , beforehand . but i will manage so that there is nothing at all left me to wish for afterwards . then he sighed and said , ah , if i were but that bavarian peasant , who likewise had three wishes granted to him , and knew quite well what to do , and in the first place wished for a great deal of beer , and in the second for as much beer as he was able to drink , and in the third for a barrel of beer into the bargain . many a time he thought he had found it , but then it seemed to him to be , after all , too little . then it came into his mind , what an easy life his wife had , for she stayed at home in a cool room and enjoyed herself . this really did vex him , and before he was aware , he said , i just wish she was sitting there on this saddle , and could not get off it , instead of my having to drag it along on my back . and as the last word was spoken , the saddle disappeared from his back , and he saw that his second wish had been fulfilled . then he really did feel hot . he began to run and wanted to be quite alone in his own room at home , to think of something really big for his last wish . but when he arrived there and opened the parlor-door , he saw his wife sitting in the middle of the room on the saddle , crying and complaining , and quite unable to get off it . so he said , do bear it , and i will wish for all the riches on earth for you , only stay where you are . she , however , called him a fool , and said , what good will all the riches on earth do me , if i am to sit on this saddle . you have wished me on it , so you must help me off . so whether he would or not , he was forced to let his third wish be that she should be quit of the saddle , and able to get off it , and immediately the wish was fulfilled . so he got nothing by it but vexation , trouble , abuse , and the loss of his horse . but the poor people lived contentedly , quietly , and piously until their happy death .