there was once upon a time a man who was about to set out on a long journey , and on parting he asked his three daughters what he should bring back with him for them . whereupon the eldest wished for pearls , the second wished for diamonds , but the third said , dear father , i should like a singing , soaring lark . the father said , yes , if i can get it , you shall have it , kissed all three , and set out . now when the time had come for him to be on his way home again , he had brought pearls and diamonds for the two eldest , but he had sought everywhere in vain for a singing , soaring lark for the youngest , and he was very unhappy about it , for she was his favorite child . then his road lay through a forest , and in the midst of it was a splendid castle , and near the castle stood a tree , but quite on the top of the tree , he saw a singing , soaring lark . aha , you come just at the right moment , he said , quite delighted , and called to his servant to climb up and catch the little creature . but as he approached the tree , a lion leapt from beneath it , shook himself , and roared till the leaves on the trees trembled . he who tries to steal my singing , soaring lark , he cried , will i devour . then the man said , i did not know that the bird belonged to you . i will make amends for the wrong i have done and ransom myself with a large sum of money , only spare my life . the lion said , nothing can save you , unless you will promise to give me for my own what first meets you on your return home , and if you will do that , i will grant you your life , and you shall have the bird for your daughter , into the bargain . but the man hesitated and said , that might be my youngest daughter , she loves me best , and always runs to meet me on my return home . the servant , however , was terrified and said , why should your daughter be the very one to meet you , it might as easily be a cat , or dog . then the man allowed himself to be persuaded , took the singing , soaring lark , and promised to give the lion whatsoever should first meet him on his return home . when he reached home and entered his house , the first who met him was no other than his youngest and dearest daughter , who came running up , kissed and embraced him , and when she saw that he had brought with him a singing , soaring lark , she was beside herself with joy . the father , however , could not rejoice , but began to weep , and said , my dearest child , i have bought the little bird dear . in return for it , i have been obliged to promise you to a savage lion , and when he has you he will tear you in pieces and devour you , and he told her all , just as it had happened , and begged her not to go there , come what might . but she consoled him and said , dearest father , indeed your promise must be fulfilled . i will go thither and soften the lion , so that i may return to you safely . next morning she had the road pointed out to her , took leave , and went fearlessly out into the forest . the lion , however , was an enchanted prince and was by day a lion , and all his people were lions with him , but in the night they resumed their natural human shapes . on her arrival she was kindly received and led into the castle . when night came , the lion turned into a handsome man , and their wedding was celebrated with great magnificence . they lived happily together , remained awake at night , and slept in the daytime . one day he came and said , to-morrow there is a feast in your father's house , because your eldest sister is to be married , and if you are inclined to go there , my lions shall conduct you . she said , yes , i should very much like to see my father again , and went thither , accompanied by the lions . there was great joy when she arrived , for they had all believed that she had been torn in pieces by the lion , and had long ceased to live . but she told them what a handsome husband she had , and how well off she was , remained with them while the wedding-feast lasted , and then went back again to the forest . when the second daughter was about to be married , and she was again invited to the wedding , she said to the lion , this time i will not be alone , you must come with me . the lion , however , said that it was too dangerous for him , for if when there a ray from a burning candle fell on him , he would be changed into a dove , and for seven years long would have to fly about with the doves . she said , ah , but do come with me , i will take great care of you , and guard you from all light . so they went away together , and took with them their little child as well . she had a room built there , so strong and thick that no ray could pierce through it , in this he was to shut himself up when the candles were lit for the wedding-feast . but the door was made of green wood which warped and left a little crack which no one noticed . the wedding was celebrated with magnificence , but when the procession with all its candles and torches came back from church , and passed by this apartment , a ray touched him , he was transformed in an instant , and when she came in and looked for him , she did not see him , but a white dove was sitting there . the dove said to her , for seven years must i fly about the world , but at every seventh step that you take i will let fall a drop of red blood and a white feather , and these will show you the way , and if you follow the trace you can release me . thereupon the dove flew out at the door , and she followed him , and at every seventh step a red drop of blood and a little white feather fell down and showed her the way . so she went continually further and further in the wide world , never looking about her or resting , and the seven years were almost past , then she rejoiced and thought that they would soon be saved , and yet they were so far from it . once when they were thus moving onwards , no little feather and no drop of red blood fell , and when she raised her eyes the dove had disappeared . and as she thought to herself , in this no man can help you , she climbed up to the sun , and said to him , you shine into every crevice , and over every peak , have you not seen a white dove flying . no , said the sun , i have seen none , but i present you with a casket , open it when you are in sorest need . then she thanked the sun , and went on until evening came and the moon appeared , she then asked her , you shine the whole night through , and on every field and forest , have you not seen a white dove flying . no , said the moon , i have seen no dove , but here i give you an egg , break it when you are in great need . she thanked the moon , and went on until the night wind came up and blew on her , then she said to it , you blow over every tree and under every leaf , have you not seen a white dove flying . no , said the night wind , i have seen none , but i will ask the three other winds , perhaps they have seen it . the east wind and the west wind came , and had seen nothing , but the south wind said , i have seen the white dove , it has flown to the red sea , where it has become a lion again , for the seven years are over , and the lion is there fighting with a dragon , the dragon , however , is an enchanted princess . the night wind then said to her , i will advise you , go to the red sea , on the right bank are some tall reeds , count them , break off the eleventh , and strike the dragon with it , then the lion will be able to subdue it , and both then will regain their human form . after that , look round and you will see the griffin which is by the red sea , swing yourself , with your beloved , on to his back , and the bird will carry you over the sea to your own home . here is a nut for you , when you are above the center of the sea , let the nut fall , it will immediately shoot up , and a tall nut-tree will grow out of the water on which the griffin may rest , for if he cannot rest , he will not be strong enough to carry you across , and if you forget to throw down the nut , he will let you fall into the sea . then she went thither , and found everything as the night wind had said . she counted the reeds by the sea , and cut off the eleventh , struck the dragon therewith , whereupon the lion conquered it , and immediately both of them regained their human shapes . but when the princess , who hitherto had been the dragon , was released from enchantment , she took the youth by the arm , seated herself on the griffin , and carried him off with her . there stood the poor maiden who had wandered so far and was again forsaken . she sat down and cried , but at last she took courage and said , still i will go as far as the wind blows and as long as the cock crows , until i find him , and she went forth by long , long roads , until at last she came to the castle where both of them were living together , there she heard that soon a feast was to be held , in which they would celebrate their wedding , but she said , god still helps me , and opened the casket that the sun had given her . a dress lay therein as brilliant as the sun itself . so she took it out and put it on , and went up into the castle , and everyone , even the bride herself , looked at her with astonishment . the dress pleased the bride so well that she thought it might do for her wedding-dress , and asked if it was for sale . not for money or land , answered she , but for flesh and blood . the bride asked her what she meant by that , so she said , let me sleep a night in the chamber where the bridegroom sleeps . the bride would not , yet wanted very much to have the dress , at last she consented , but the page was to give the prince a sleeping-draught . when it was night , therefore , and the youth was already asleep , she was led into the chamber , she seated herself on the bed and said , i have followed after you for seven years . i have been to the sun and the moon , and the four winds , and have enquired for you , and have helped you against the dragon , will you , then quite forget me . but the prince slept so soundly that it only seemed to him as if the wind were whistling outside in the fir-trees . when therefore day broke , she was led out again , and had to give up the golden dress . and as that even had been of no avail , she was sad , went out into a meadow , sat down there , and wept . while she was sitting there , she thought of the egg which the moon had given her , she opened it , and there came out a clucking hen with twelve chickens all of gold , and they ran about chirping , and crept again under the old hen's wings , nothing more beautiful was ever seen in the world . then she arose , and drove them through the meadow before her , until the bride looked out of the window . the little chickens pleased her so much that she immediately came down and asked if they were for sale . not for money or land , but for flesh and blood , let me sleep another night in the chamber where the bridegroom sleeps . the bride said , yes , intending to cheat her as on the former evening . but when the prince went to bed he asked the page what the murmuring and rustling in the night had been . on this the page told all , that he had been forced to give him a sleeping-draught , because a poor girl had slept secretly in the chamber , and that he was to give him another that night . the prince said , pour out the draught by the bed-side . at night , she was again led in , and when she began to relate how ill all had fared with her , he immediately recognized his beloved wife by her voice , sprang up and cried , now i really am released . i have been as it were in a dream , for the strange princess has bewitched me so that i have been compelled to forget you , but god has delivered me from the spell at the right time . then they both left the castle secretly in the night , for they feared the father of the princess , who was a sorcerer , and they seated themselves on the griffin which bore them across the red sea , and when they were in the midst of it , she let fall the nut . immediately a tall nut-tree grew up , whereon the bird rested , and then carried them home , where they found their child , who had grown tall and beautiful , and they lived thenceforth happily until their death .