there was once a widow who had two daughters - one of whom was pretty and industrious , whilst the other was ugly and idle . but she was much fonder of the ugly and idle one , because she was her own daughter . and the other , who was a step-daughter , was obliged to do all the work , and be the cinderella of the house . every day the poor girl had to sit by a well , in the highway , and spin and spin till her fingers bled . now it happened that one day the shuttle was marked with her blood , so she dipped it in the well , to wash the mark off , but it dropped out of her hand and fell to the bottom . she began to weep , and ran to her step-mother and told her of the mishap . but she scolded her sharply , and was so merciless as to say , since you have let the shuttle fall in , you must fetch it out again . so the girl went back to the well , and did not know what to do . and in the sorrow of her heart she jumped into the well to get the shuttle . she lost her senses . and when she awoke and came to herself again , she was in a lovely meadow where the sun was shining and many thousands of flowers were growing . across this meadow she went , and at last came to a baker's oven full of bread , and the bread cried out , oh , take me out . take me out . or i shall burn . i have been baked a long time . so she went up to it , and took out all the loaves one after another with the bread-shovel . after that she went on till she came to a tree covered with apples , which called out to her , oh , shake me . shake me . we apples are all ripe . so she shook the tree till the apples fell like rain , and went on shaking till they were all down , and when she had gathered them into a heap , she went on her way . at last she came to a little house , out of which an old woman peeped . but she had such large teeth that the girl was frightened , and was about to run away . but the old woman called out to her , what are you afraid of , dear child . stay with me . if you will do all the work in the house properly , you shall be the better for it . only you must take care to make my bed well , and shake it thoroughly till the feathers fly - for then there is snow on the earth . i am mother holle . as the old woman spoke so kindly to her , the girl took courage and agreed to enter her service . she attended to everything to the satisfaction of her mistress , and always shook her bed so vigorously that the feathers flew about like snow-flakes . so she had a pleasant life with her . never an angry word . and to eat she had boiled or roast meat every day . she stayed some time with mother holle , before she became sad . at first she did not know what was the matter with her , but found at length that it was home-sickness . although she was many thousand times better off here than at home , still she had a longing to be there . at last she said to the old woman , i have a longing for home , and however well off i am down here , i cannot stay any longer . i must go up again to my own people . mother holle said , i am pleased that you long for your home again , and as you have served me so truly , i myself will take you up again . thereupon she took her by the hand , and led her to a large door . the door was opened , and just as the maiden was standing beneath the doorway , a heavy shower of golden rain fell , and all the gold clung to her , so that she was completely covered over with it . you shall have that because you have been so industrious , said mother holle , and at the same time she gave her back the shuttle which she had let fall into the well . thereupon the door closed , and the maiden found herself up above upon the earth , not far from her mother's house . and as she went into the yard the cock was sitting on the well , and cried - cock-a-doodle-doo . your golden girl's come back to you . so she went in to her mother , and as she arrived thus covered with gold , she was well received , both by her and her sister . the girl told all that had happened to her , and as soon as the mother heard how she had come by so much wealth , she was very anxious to obtain the same good luck for the ugly and lazy daughter . she had to seat herself by the well and spin . and in order that her shuttle might be stained with blood , she stuck her hand into a thorn bush and pricked her finger . then she threw her shuttle into the well , and jumped in after it . she came , like the other , to the beautiful meadow and walked along the very same path . when she got to the oven the bread again cried , oh , take me out . take me out . or i shall burn . i have been baked a long time . but the lazy thing answered , as if i had any wish to make myself dirty . and on she went . soon she came to the apple-tree , which cried , oh , shake me . shake me . we apples are all ripe . but she answered , i like that . one of you might fall on my head , and so went on . when she came to mother holle's house she was not afraid , for she had already heard of her big teeth , and she hired herself to her immediately . the first day she forced herself to work diligently , and obeyed mother holle when she told her to do anything , for she was thinking of all the gold that she would give her . but on the second day she began to be lazy , and on the third day still more so , and then she would not get up in the morning at all . neither did she make mother holle's bed as she ought , and did not shake it so as to make the feathers fly up . mother holle was soon tired of this , and gave her notice to leave . the lazy girl was willing enough to go , and thought that now the golden rain would come . mother holle led her also to the great door , but while she was standing beneath it , instead of the gold a big kettleful of pitch was emptied over her . that is the reward for your service , said mother holle , and shut the door . so the lazy girl went home , but she was quite covered with pitch , and the cock on the well , as soon as he saw her , cried out - cock-a-doodle-doo . your dirty girl's come back to you . but the pitch clung fast to her , and could not be got off as long as she lived .