there was once a rich man , who had a servant who served him diligently and honestly . he was every morning the first out of bed , and the last to go to rest at night , and whenever there was a difficult job to be done , which nobody cared to undertake , he was always the first to set himself to it . moreover , he never complained , but was contented with everything and always merry . when a year was ended , his master gave him no wages , for he said to himself , that is the cleverest way , for i shall save something and he will not go away , but stay quietly in my service . the servant said nothing , but did his work the second year as he had done it the first , and when at the end of this , likewise , he received no wages , he submitted and still stayed on . when the third year also was past , the master considered , put his hand in his pocket , but pulled nothing out . then at last the servant said , master , for three years i have served you honestly , be so good as to give me what i ought to have , for i wish to leave , and look about me a little more in the world . yes , my good fellow , answered the old miser , you have served me industriously , and therefore you shall be graciously rewarded . and he put his hand into his pocket , but counted out only three farthings , saying , there , you have a farthing for each year , that is large and liberal pay , such as you would have received from few masters . the honest servant , who understood little about money , put his fortune into his pocket , and thought , ah , now that i have my purse full , why need i trouble and plague myself any longer with hard work . so on he went , up hill and down dale , and sang and jumped to his heart's content . now it came to pass that as he was going by a thicket a little man stepped out , and called to him , whither away , merry brother . i see you do not carry many cares . why should i be sad , answered the servant , i have enough . three years , wages are jingling in my pocket . how much is your treasure , the dwarf asked him . how much . three farthings sterling , all told . look here , said the dwarf , i am a poor needy man , give me your three farthings , i can work no longer but you are young , and can easily earn your bread . and as the servant had a good heart , and felt pity for the little man , he gave him the three farthings , saying , take them in the name of heaven , i shall not be any the worse for it . then the little man said , as i see you have a good heart i grant you three wishes , one for each farthing , they shall all be fulfilled . aha , said the servant , you are one of those who can work wonders . well , then , if it is to be so , i wish , first , for a gun , which shall hit everything that i aim at , secondly , for a fiddle , which when i play on it , shall compel all who hear it to dance , thirdly , that if i ask a favor of any one he shall not be able to refuse it . all that shall you have , said the dwarf , and put his hand into the bush , and just imagine , there lay a fiddle and gun , all ready , just as if they had been ordered . these he gave to the servant , and then said to him , whatever you may ask at any time , no man in the world shall be able to deny you . heart alive . what more can one desire , said the servant , to himself , and went merrily onwards . soon afterwards he met a jew with a long goat's beard , who was standing listening to the song of a bird which was sitting up at the top of a tree . good heavens , he was exclaiming , that such a small creature should have such a fearfully loud voice . if it were but mine . if only someone would sprinkle some salt upon its tail . if that is all , said the servant , the bird shall soon be down here . and taking aim he blew , and down fell the bird into the thorn-bushes . go , you rogue , he said to the jew , and fetch the bird out for yourself . oh , said the jew , leave out the rogue , my master , and i will do it at once . i will get the bird out for myself , now that you have hit it . then he lay down on the ground , and began to crawl into the thicket . when he was fast among the thorns , the good servant's humor so tempted him that he took up his fiddle and began to play . in a moment the jew's legs began to move , and to jump into the air , and the more the servant fiddled the better went the dance . but the thorns tore his shabby coat from him , combed his beard , and pricked and plucked him all over the body . oh , dear , cried the jew , what do i want with your fiddling . leave the fiddle alone master , i do not want to dance . but the servant did not listen to him , and thought , you have fleeced people often enough , now the thorn-bushes shall do the same to you . and he began to play over again , so that the jew had to jump higher than ever , and scraps of his coat were left hanging on the thorns . oh , woe's me , cried the jew , i will give the gentleman whatsoever he asks if only he leaves off fiddling , a whole purseful of gold . if you are so liberal , said the servant , i will stop my music , but this i must say to your credit , that you dance to it so well that one must really admire it . and having taken the purse he went his way . the jew stood still and watched the servant quietly until he was far off and out of sight , and then he screamed out with all his might , you miserable musician , you beer-house fiddler . wait till i catch you alone , i will hunt you till the soles of your shoes fall off . you ragamuffin , just put six farthings in your mouth , that you may be worth three halfpence . and went on abusing him as fast as he could speak . as soon as he had refreshed himself a little in this way , and got his breath again , he ran into the town to the justice . my lord judge , he said , i have come to make a complaint , see how a rascal has robbed and ill-treated me on the public highway . a stone on the ground might pity me , my clothes all torn , my body pricked and scratched , my little all gone with my purse - good ducats , each piece better than the last , for god's sake let the man be thrown into prison . was it a soldier , said the judge , who cut you thus with his sabre . nothing of the sort , said the jew , it was no sword that he had , but a gun hanging at his back , and a fiddle at his neck , the wretch may easily be recognized . so the judge sent his people out after the man , and they found the good servant , who had been going quite slowly along , and they found , too , the purse with the money upon him . as soon as he was taken before the judge he said , i did not touch the jew , nor take his money , he gave it to me of his own free will , that i might leave off fiddling because he could not bear my music . heaven defend us , cried the jew , his lies are as thick as flies upon the wall . but the judge also did not believe his tale , and said , this is a bad defence , no jew would do that . and because he had committed robbery on the public highway , he sentenced the good servant to be hanged . as he was being led away the jew again screamed after him , you vagabond . you dog of a fiddler . now you are going to receive your well-earned reward . the servant walked quietly with the hangman up the ladder , but upon the last step he turned round and said to the judge , grant me just one request before i die . yes , if you do not ask your life , said the judge . i do not ask for life , answered the servant , but as a last favor let me play once more upon my fiddle . the jew raised a great cry of , murder . murder . for goodness , sake do not allow it . do not allow it . but the judge said , why should i not let him have this short pleasure . it has been granted to him , and he shall have it . however , he could not have refused on account of the gift which had been bestowed on the servant . then the jew cried , oh . woe's me . tie me , tie me fast . while the good servant took his fiddle from his neck , and made ready . as he gave the first scrape , they all began to quiver and shake , the judge , his clerk , and the hangman and his men , and the cord fell out of the hand of the one who was going to tie the jew fast . at the second scrape they all leaped up and began to dance , the judge and the jew being the best at jumping . soon all who had gathered in the market-place out of curiosity were dancing with them , old and young , fat and lean , one with another . the dogs , likewise , which had run there , got up on their hind legs and capered about , and the longer he played , the higher sprang the dancers , so that they knocked against each other's heads and began to shriek terribly . at length the judge cried , quite of breath , i will give you your life if you will only stop fiddling . the good servant thereupon had compassion , took his fiddle and hung it round his neck again , and stepped down the ladder . then he went up to the jew , who was lying upon the ground panting for breath , and said , you rascal , now confess , whence you got the money , or i will take my fiddle and begin to play again . i stole it , i stole it , cried he , but you have honestly earned it . so the judge had the jew taken to the gallows and hanged as a thief .