in days gone by there was a land where the nights were always dark , and the sky spread over it like a black cloth , for there the moon never rose , and no star shone in the gloom . at the creation of the world , the light at night had been sufficient . three young fellows once went out of this country on a traveling expedition , and arrived in another kingdom , where , in the evening when the sun had disappeared behind the mountains , a shining globe was placed on an oak-tree , which shed a soft light far and wide . by means of this , everything could very well be seen and distinguished , even though it was not so brilliant as the sun . the travelers stopped and asked a countryman who was driving past with his cart , what kind of a light that was . that is the moon , answered he , our mayor bought it for three talers , and fastened it to the oak-tree . he has to pour oil into it daily , and to keep it clean , so that it may always burn clearly . he receives a taler a week from us for doing it . when the countryman had driven away , one of them said , we could make some use of this lamp , we have an oak-tree at home , which is just as big as this , and we could hang it on that . what a pleasure it would be not to have to feel about at night in the darkness . i'll tell you what we'll do , said the second , we will fetch a cart and horses and carry away the moon . the people here may buy themselves another . i'm a good climber , said the third , i will bring it down . the fourth brought a cart and horses , and the third climbed the tree , bored a hole in the moon , passed a rope through it , and let it down . when the shining ball lay in the cart , they covered it over with a cloth , that no one might observe the theft . they conveyed it safely into their own country , and placed it on a high oak . old and young rejoiced , when the new lamp let its light shine over the whole land , and bed-rooms and sitting-rooms were filled with it . the dwarfs came forth from their caves in the rocks , and the tiny elves in their little red coats danced in rings on the meadows . the four took care that the moon was provided with oil , cleaned the wick , and received their weekly taler , but they became old men , and when one of them grew ill , and saw that he was about to die , he appointed that one quarter of the moon , should , as his property , be laid in the grave with him . when he died , the mayor climbed up the tree , and cut off a quarter with the hedge-shears , and this was placed in his coffin . the light of the moon decreased , but still not visibly . when the second died , the second quarter was buried with him , and the light diminished . it grew weaker still after the death of the third , who likewise took his part of it away with him , and when the fourth was borne to his grave , the old state of darkness recommenced , and whenever the people went out at night without their lanterns they knocked their heads together in collision . when , however , the pieces of the moon had united themselves together again in the world below , where darkness had always prevailed , it came to pass that the dead became restless and awoke from their sleep . they were astonished when they were able to see again , the moonlight was quite sufficient for them , for their eyes had become so weak that they could not have borne the brilliance of the sun . they rose up and were merry , and fell into their former ways of living . some of them went to the play and to dance , others hastened to the public-houses , where they asked for wine , got drunk , brawled , quarreled , and at last took up cudgels , and belabored each other . the noise became greater and greater , and at last reached even to heaven . st . peter , who guards the gate of heaven , thought the lower world had broken out in revolt and gathered together the heavenly hosts , which were employed to drive back the evil one when he and his associates storm the abode of the blessed . as these , however , did not come , he got on his horse and rode through the gate of heaven , down into the world below . there he reduced the dead to subjection , bade them lie down in their graves again , took the moon away with him , and hung it up in heaven .