there was once a man whose wife died , and a woman whose husband died , and the man had a daughter , and the woman also had a daughter . the girls were acquainted with each other , and went out walking together , and afterwards came to the woman in her house . then said she to the man's daughter , listen , tell your father that i would like to marry him , and then you shall wash yourself in milk every morning , and drink wine , but my own daughter shall wash herself in water and drink water . the girl went home , and told her father what the woman had said . the man said , what shall i do . marriage is a joy and also a torment . at length as he could come to no decision , he pulled off his boot , and said , take this boot , it has a hole in the sole of it . go with it up to the loft , hang it on the big nail , and then pour water into it . if it hold the water , then i will again take a wife , but if it run through , i will not . the girl did as she was bid , but the water drew the hole together and the boot became full to the top . she informed her father how it had turned out . then he himself went up , and when he saw that she was right , he went to the widow and wooed her , and the wedding was celebrated . the next morning , when the two girls got up , there stood before the man's daughter milk for her to wash in and wine for her to drink , but before the woman's daughter stood water to wash herself with and water for drinking . on the second morning , stood water for washing and water for drinking before the man's daughter as well as before the woman's daughter . and on the third morning stood water for washing and water for drinking before the man's daughter , and milk for washing and wine for drinking , before the woman's daughter , and so it continued . the woman became her step-daughter's bitterest enemy , and day by day did her best to treat her still worse . she was also envious because her step-daughter was beautiful and lovable , and her own daughter ugly and repulsive . once , in winter , when everything was frozen as hard as a stone , and hill and vale lay covered with snow , the woman made a frock of paper , called her step-daughter , and said , here , put on this dress and go out into the wood , and fetch me a little basketful of strawberries - i have a fancy for some . good heavens , said the girl , no strawberries grow in winter . the ground is frozen , and besides the snow has covered everything . and why am i to go in this paper frock . it is so cold outside that one's very breath freezes . the wind will blow through the frock , and the thorns tear it off my body . will you contradict me , said the step-mother . see that you go , and do not show your face again until you have the basketful of strawberries . then she gave her a little piece of hard bread , and said , this will last you the day , and thought , you will die of cold and hunger outside , and will never be seen again by me . then the maiden was obedient , and put on the paper frock , and went out with the basket . far and wide there was nothing but snow , and not a green blade to be seen . when she got into the wood she saw a small house out of which peeped three little men . she wished them good day , and knocked modestly at the door . they cried , come in , and she entered the room and seated herself on the bench by the stove , where she began to warm herself and eat her breakfast . the little men said , give us some of it , too . willingly , she said , and divided her piece of bread in two 'and gave them the half . they asked , what do you here in the forest in the winter time , in your thin dress . ah , she answered , i am to look for a basketful of strawberries , and am not to go home until i can take them with me . when she had eaten her bread , they gave her a broom and said , sweep away the snow at the back door . but when she was outside , the three little men said to each other , what shall we give her as she is so good , and has shared her bread with us . then said the first , my gift is , that she shall every day grow more beautiful . the second said , my gift is , that gold pieces shall fall out of her mouth every time she speaks . the third said , my gift is , that a king shall come and take her to wife . the girl , however , did as the little men had bidden her , swept away the snow behind the little house with the broom , and what did she find but real ripe strawberries , which came up quite dark-red out of the snow . in her joy she hastily gathered her basket full , thanked the little men , shook hands with each of them , and ran home to take her step-mother what she had longed for so much . when she went in and said good-evening , a piece of gold at once fell out of her mouth . thereupon she related what had happened to her in the wood , but with every word she spoke , gold pieces fell from her mouth , until very soon the whole room was covered with them . now look at her arrogance , cried the step-sister , to throw about gold in that way . but she was secretly envious of it , and wanted to go into the forest also to seek strawberries . the mother said , no , my dear little daughter , it is too cold , you might freeze to death . however , as her daughter let her have no peace , the mother at last yielded , made her a magnificent coat of fur , which she was obliged to put on , and gave her bread-and-butter and cake for her journey . the girl went into the forest and straight up to the little house . the three little men peeped out again , but she did not greet them , and without looking round at them and without speaking to them , she went awkwardly into the room , seated herself by the stove , and began to eat her bread-and-butter and cake . give us some of it , cried the little men . but she replied , there is not enough for myself , so how can i give it away to other people . when she had finished eating , they said , there is a broom for you , sweep it all clean in front of the back-door . sweep for yourselves , she answered , i am not your servant . when she saw that they were not going to give her anything , she went out by the door . then the little men said to each other , what shall we give her as she is so naughty , and has a wicked envious heart , that will never let her do a good turn to any one . the first said , i grant that she may grow uglier every day . the second said , i grant that at every word she says , a toad shall spring out of her mouth . the third said , i grant that she may die a miserable death . the maiden looked for strawberries outside , but as she found none , she went angrily home . and when she opened her mouth , and was about to tell her mother what had happened to her in the wood , with every word she said , a toad sprang out of her mouth , so that everyone was seized with horror of her . then the step-mother was still more enraged , and thought of nothing but how to do every possible injury to the man's daughter , whose beauty , however , grew daily greater . at length she took a cauldron , set it on the fire , and boiled yarn in it . when it was boiled , she flung it on the poor girl's shoulder , and gave her an axe in order that she might go on the frozen river , cut a hole in the ice , and rinse the yarn . she was obedient , went thither and cut a hole in the ice . and while she was in the midst of her cutting , a splendid carriage came driving up , in which sat the king . the carriage stopped , and the king asked , my child , who are you , and what are you doing here . i am a poor girl , and i am rinsing yarn . then the king felt compassion , and when he saw that she was so very beautiful , he said to her , will you go away with me . ah , yes , with all my heart , she answered , for she was glad to get away from the mother and sister . so she got into the carriage and drove away with the king , and when they arrived at his palace , the wedding was celebrated with great pomp , as the little men had granted to the maiden . when a year was over , the young queen bore a son , and as the step-mother had heard of her great good-fortune , she came with her daughter to the palace and pretended that she wanted to pay her a visit . but , when the king had gone out , and no one else was present , the wicked woman seized the queen by the head , and her daughter seized her by the feet , and they lifted her out of the bed , and threw her out of the window into the stream which flowed by . then the ugly daughter laid herself in the bed , and the old woman covered her up over her head . when the king came home again and wanted to speak to his wife , the old woman cried , hush , hush , that can't be now , she is lying in a violent sweat . you must let her rest to-day . the king suspected no evil , and did not come back again till next morning . and as he talked with his wife and she answered him , with every word a toad leaped out , whereas formerly a piece of gold had fallen . then he asked what that could be , but the old woman said that she had got that from the violent sweat , and would soon lose it again . during the night , however , the scullion saw a duck come swimming up the gutter , and it said - king , what art thou doing now . sleepest thou , or wakest thou . and as he returned no answer , it said - and my guests , what may they do . the scullion said - they are sleeping soundly , too . then it asked again - what does little baby mine . he answered - sleepeth in her cradle fine . then she went upstairs in the form of the queen , nursed the baby , shook up its little bed , covered it over , and then swam away again down the gutter in the shape of a duck . she came thus for two nights . on the third , she said to the scullion , go and tell the king to take his sword and swing it three times over me on the threshold . then the scullion ran and told this to the king , who came with his sword and swung it thrice over the spirit , and at the third time , his wife stood before him strong , living , and healthy as she had been before . thereupon the king was full of great joy , but he kept the queen hidden in a chamber until the sunday , when the baby was to be christened . and when it was christened he said , what does a person deserve who drags another out of bed and throws him in the water . the wretch deserves nothing better , answered the old woman , than to be taken and put in a barrel stuck full of nails , and rolled down hill into the water . then , said the king , you have pronounced your own sentence . and he ordered such a barrel to be brought , and the old woman to be put into it with her daughter , and then the top was hammered on , and the barrel rolled down hill until it went into the river .