there was once upon a time a king who had a little boy in whose stars it had been foretold that he should be killed by a stag when he was sixteen years of age , and when he had reached that age the huntsmen once went hunting with him . in the forest , the king's son was separated from the others , and all at once he saw a great stag which he wanted to shoot , but could not hit . at length he chased the stag so far that they were quite out of the forest , and then suddenly a great tall man was standing there instead of the stag , and said , " it is well that i have you . i have already ruined six pairs of glass skates with running after you , and have not been able to reach you . " then he took the king's son with him , and dragged him through a great lake to a great palace , and he had to sit down to table with him and eat something . when they had eaten something together the king said , " i have three daughters , you must keep watch over the eldest for one night , from nine in the evening till six in the morning , and every time the clock strikes , i will come myself and call , and if you then give me no answer , to-morrow morning you shall be put to death , but if you always give me an answer , you shall have her to wife . " when the young folks went to the bedroom there stood a stone image of st . christopher , and the king's daughter said to it , " my father will come at nine o'clock , and every hour till it strikes three , when he calls , give him an answer instead of the king's son . " then the stone image of st . christopher nodded its head quite quickly , and then more and more slowly till at last it again stood still . the next morning the king said to him , " you have done the business well , but i cannot give my daughter away . you must now watch a night by my second daughter , and then i will consider with myself , whether you can have my eldest daughter to wife , but i shall come every hour myself , and when i call you , answer me , and if i call you and you do not reply , your blood shall flow . " then they both went into the sleeping-room , and there stood a still larger stone image of st . christopher , and the king's daughter said to it , " if my father calls , answer him . " then the great stone image of st . christopher again nodded its head quite quickly and then more and more slowly , until at last it stood still again . and the king's son lay down on the threshold , put his hand under his head and slept . the next morning the king said to him , " you have done the business really well , but i cannot give my daughter away , you must now watch a night by the youngest princess , and then i will consider with myself whether you can have my second daughter to wife . but i shall come every hour myself , and when i call you answer me , and if i call you and you answer not , your blood shall flow for me . " then they once more went to the sleeping-room together , and there was a much greater and much taller image of st . christopher than the two first had been . the king's daughter said to it , " when my father calls , answer . " then the great tall stone image of st . christopher nodded quite half an hour with its head , until at length the head stood still again . and the king's son laid himself down on the threshold of the door and slept . the next morning the king said , " you have indeed watched well , but i cannot give you my daughter now , i have a great forest , if you cut it down for me between six o'clock this morning and six at night , i will think about it . " then he gave him a glass axe , a glass wedge , and a glass mallet . when he got into the wood , he began at once to cut , but the axe broke in two . then he took the wedge , and struck it once with the mallet , and it became as short and as small as sand . then he was much troubled and believed he would have to die , and sat down and wept . now when it was noon the king said , " one of you girls must take him something to eat . " " no , " said the two eldest , " we will not take it to him , the one by whom he last watched , can take him something . " then the youngest was forced to go and take him something to eat . when she got into the forest , she asked him how he was getting on . " oh , " said he , " i am getting on very badly . " then she said he was to come and just eat a little . " nay , " said he , " i cannot do that , i have to die anyway , so i will eat no more . " then she spoke so kindly to him and begged him just to try , that he came and ate something . when he had eaten something she said , " i will pick your lice a while , and then you will feel happier . " so she loused him , and he became weary and fell asleep , and then she took her handkerchief and made a knot in it , and struck it three times on the earth , and said , " earth-workers , come forth . " in a moment , numbers of little earth-men came forth , and asked what the king's daughter commanded . then said she , " in three hours , time the great forest must be cut down , and all the wood laid in heaps . " so the little earth-men went about and got together the whole of their kindred to help them with the work . they began at once , and when the three hours were over , all was done , and they came back to the king's daughter and told her so . then she took her white handkerchief again and said , " earth-workers , go home . " at this they all disappeared . when the king's son awoke , he was delighted , and she said , " come home when it has struck six o'clock . " he did as she told him , and then the king asked , " have you made away with the forest ? " " yes , " said the king's son . when they were sitting at table , the king said , " i cannot yet give you my daughter to wife , you must still do something more for her sake . " so he asked what it was to be . " i have a great fish-pond , " said the king . " you must go to it to-morrow morning and clear it of all mud until it is as bright as a mirror , and fill it with every kind of fish . " the next morning the king gave him a glass shovel and said , " the fish-pond must be done by six o'clock . " so he went away , and when he came to the fish-pond he stuck his shovel in the mud and it broke in two . then he stuck his hoe in the mud , and it broke also . then he was much troubled . at noon the youngest daughter brought him something to eat , and asked him how he was getting on . so the king's son said everything was going very ill with him , and he would certainly have to lose his head . " my tools have broken to pieces again . " " oh , " said she , " you must just come and eat something , and then you will be in another frame of mind . " " no , " said he , " i cannot eat , i am far too unhappy for that . " then she gave him many good words until at last he came and ate something . then she loused him again , and he fell asleep , so once more she took her handkerchief , tied a knot in it , and struck the ground thrice with the knot , and said , " earth-workers , come forth . " in a moment a great many little earth-men came and asked what she desired , and she told them that in three hours , time , they must have the fish-pond entirely cleaned out , and it must be so clear that people could see themselves reflected in it , and every kind of fish must be in it . the little earth-men went away and summoned all their kindred to help them , and in two hours it was done . then they returned to her and said , " we have done as you have commanded . " the king's daughter took the handkerchief and once more struck thrice on the ground with it , and said , " earth-workers , go home again . " then they all went away . when the king's son awoke the fish-pond was done . then the king's daughter went away also , and told him that when it was six he was to come to the house . when he arrived at the house the king asked , " have you got the fish-pond done ? " " yes , " said the king's son . that was very good . when they were again sitting at table the king said , " you have certainly done the fish-pond , but i cannot give you my daughter yet , you must just do one thing more . " " what is that , then ? " asked the king's son . the king said he had a great mountain on which there was nothing but briars which must all be cut down , and at the top of it the youth must build a great castle , which must be as strong as could be conceived , and all the furniture and fittings belonging to a castle must be inside it . and when he arose next morning the king gave him a glass axe and a glass gimlet , and he was to have all done by six o'clock . as he was cutting down the first briar with the axe , it broke off short , and so small that the pieces flew all round about , and he could not use the gimlet either . then he was quite miserable , and waited for his dearest to see if she would not come and help him in his need . when it was mid-day she came and brought him something to eat . he went to meet her and told her all , and ate something , and let her louse him and fell asleep . then she once more took the knot and struck the earth with it , and said , " earth-workers , come forth . " then came once again numbers of earth-men , and asked what her desire was . then said she , " in the space of three hours you must cut down the whole of the briars , and a castle must be built on the top of the mountain that must be as strong as any one could conceive , and all the furniture that pertains to a castle must be inside it . " they went away , and summoned their kindred to help them and when the time was come , all was ready . then they came to the king's daughter and told her so , and the king's daughter took her handkerchief and struck thrice on the earth with it , and said , " earth-workers , go home , on which they all disappeared . " when therefore the king's son awoke and saw everything done , he was as happy as a bird in air . when it had struck six , they went home together . then said the king , " is the castle ready ? " " yes , " said the king's son . when they sat down to table , the king said , " i cannot give away my youngest daughter until the two eldest are married . " then the king's son and the king's daughter were quite troubled , and the king's son had no idea what to do . but he went by night to the king's daughter and ran away with her . when they had got a little distance away , the king's daughter peeped round and saw her father behind her . " oh , " said she , " what are we to do ? my father is behind us , and will take us back with him . i will at once change you into a briar , and myself into a rose , and i will shelter myself in the midst of the bush . " when the father reached the place , there stood a briar with one rose on it , and he was about to gather the rose , when the thorn pricked his finger so that he was forced to go home again . his wife asked why he had not brought their daughter back with him . so he said he had nearly got up to her , but that all at once he had lost sight of her , and a briar with one rose was growing on the spot . then said the queen , " if you had but gathered the rose , the briar would have been forced to come too . " so he went back again to fetch the rose , but in the meantime the two were already far over the plain , and the king ran after them . then the daughter once more looked round and saw her father coming , and said , " oh , what shall we do now ? i will instantly change you into a church and myself into a priest , and i will stand up in the pulpit , and preach . " when the king got to the place , there stood a church , and in the pulpit was a priest preaching . so he listened to the sermon , and then went home again . then the queen asked why he had not brought their daughter with him , and he said , " nay , i ran a long time after her , and just as i thought i should soon overtake her , a church was standing there and a priest was in the pulpit preaching . " " you should just have brought the priest , " said his wife , " and then the church would soon have come . it is no use to send you , i must go there myself . " when she had walked for some time , and could see the two in the distance , the king's daughter peeped round and saw her mother coming , and said , " now we are undone , for my mother is coming herself , i will immediately change you into a fish-pond and myself into a fish . " when the mother came to the place , there was a large fish-pond , and in the midst of it a fish was leaping about and peeping out of the water , and it was quite merry . she wanted to catch the fish , but she could not . then she was very angry , and drank up the whole pond in order to catch the fish , but it made her so ill that she was forced to vomit , and vomited the whole pond out again . then she cried , " i see very well that nothing can be done now , and asked them to come back to her . " then the king's daughter went back again , and the queen gave her daughter three walnuts , and said , " with these you can help yourself when you are in your greatest need . " so the young folks once more went away together . and when they had walked quite ten miles , they arrived at the castle from whence the king's son came , and near it was a village . when they reached it , the king's son said , " stay here , my dearest , i will just go to the castle , and then will i come with a carriage and with attendants to fetch you . " when he got to the castle they all rejoiced greatly at having the king's son back again , and he told them he had a bride who was now in the village , and they must go with the carriage to fetch her . then they harnessed the horses at once , and many attendants seated themselves outside the carriage . when the king's son was about to get in , his mother gave him a kiss , and he forgot everything which had happened , and also what he was about to do . at this his mother ordered the horses to be taken out of the carriage again , and everyone went back into the house . but the maiden sat in the village and watched and watched , and thought he would come and fetch her , but no one came . then the king's daughter took service in the mill which belonged to the castle , and was obliged to sit by the pond every afternoon and clean the tubs . and the queen came one day on foot from the castle , and went walking by the pond , and saw the well-grown maiden sitting there , and said , " what a fine strong girl that is . she pleases me well . " then she and all with her looked at the maid , but no one knew her . so a long time passed by during which the maiden served the miller honorably and faithfully . in the meantime , the queen had sought a wife for her son , who came from quite a distant part of the world . when the bride came , they were at once to be married . and many people hurried together , all of whom wanted to see everything . then the girl said to the miller that he might be so good as to give her leave to go also . so the miller said , " yes , do go there . " when she was about to go , she opened one of the three walnuts , and a beautiful dress lay inside it . she put it on , and went into the church and stood by the altar . suddenly came the bride and bridegroom , and seated themselves before the altar , and when the priest was just going to bless them , the bride peeped half round and saw the maiden standing there . then she stood up again , and said she would not be given away until she also had as beautiful a dress as that lady there . so they went back to the house again , and sent to ask the lady if she would sell that dress . no , she would not sell it , but the bride might perhaps earn it . then the bride asked her how she was to do this . then the maiden said if she might sleep one night outside the king's son's door , the bride might have what she wanted . so the bride said , " yes , " she was willing to do that . but the servants were ordered to give the king's son a sleeping draught , and then the maiden laid herself down on the threshold and lamented all night long . she had had the forest cut down for him , she had had the fish-pond cleaned out for him , she had had the castle built for him , she had changed him into a briar , and then into a church , and at last into a fish-pond , and yet he had forgotten her so quickly . the king's son did not hear one word of it , but the servants had been awakened , and had listened to it , and had not known what it could mean . the next morning when they were all up , the bride put on the dress , and went away to the church with the bridegroom . in the meantime the maiden opened the second walnut , and a still more beautiful dress was inside it . she put it on , and went and stood by the altar in the church , and everything happened as it had happened the time before . and the maiden again lay all night on the threshold which led to the chamber of the king's son , and the servant was once more to give him a sleeping draught . the servant , however , went to him and gave him something to keep him awake , and then the king's son went to bed , and the miller's maiden bemoaned herself as before on the threshold of the door , and told of all that she had done . all this the king's son heard , and was sore troubled , and what was past came back to him . then he wanted to go to her , but his mother had locked the door . the next morning , however , he went at once to his beloved , and told her everything which had happened to him , and prayed her not to be angry with him for having forgotten her . then the king's daughter opened the third walnut , and within it was a still more magnificent dress , which she put on , and went with her bridegroom to church , and numbers of children came who gave them flowers , and offered them gay ribbons to bind about their feet , and they were blessed by the priest , and had a merry wedding . but the false mother and the bride had to depart . and the mouth of the person who last told all this is still warm .