two kings' sons once went out in search of adventures , and fell into a wild , disorderly way of living , so that they never came home again . the youngest , who was called simpleton , set out to seek his brothers , but when at length he found them they mocked him for thinking that he with his simplicity could get through the world , when they two could not make their way , and yet were so much cleverer . they all three traveled away together , and came to an ant-hill . the two elder wanted to destroy it , to see the little ants creeping about in their terror , and carrying their eggs away , but simpleton said , leave the creatures in peace , i will not allow you to disturb them . then they went onwards and came to a lake , on which a great number of ducks were swimming . the two brothers wanted to catch a couple and roast them , but simpleton would not permit it , and said , leave the creatures in peace , i will not suffer you to kill them . at length they came to a bee's nest , in which there was so much honey that it ran out of the trunk of the tree where it was . the two wanted to make a fire beneath the tree , and suffocate the bees in order to take away the honey , but simpleton again stopped them and said , leave the creatures in peace , i will not allow you to burn them . at length the three brothers arrived at a castle where stone horses were standing in the stables , and no human being was to be seen , and they went through all the halls until , quite at the end , they came to a door in which were three locks . in the middle of the door , however , there was a little pane , through which they could see into the room . there they saw a little grey man , who was sitting at a table . they called him , once , twice , but he did not hear , at last they called him for the third time , when he got up , opened the locks , and came out . he said nothing , however , but conducted them to a handsomely-spread table , and when they had eaten and drunk , he took each of them to a bedroom . next morning the little grey man came to the eldest , beckoned to him , and conducted him to a stone table , on which were inscribed three tasks , by the performance of which the castle could be delivered from enchantment . the first was that in the forest , beneath the moss , lay the princess's pearls , a thousand in number , which must be picked up , and if by sunset one single pearl was missing , he who had looked for them would be turned into stone . the eldest went thither , and sought the whole day , but when it came to an end , he had only found one hundred , and what was written on the table came true , and he was turned into stone . next day , the second brother undertook the adventure , but it did not fare much better with him than with the eldest , he did not find more than two hundred pearls , and was changed to stone . at last it was simpleton's turn to seek in the moss , but it was so difficult for him to find the pearls , and he got on so slowly , that he seated himself on a stone , and wept . and while he was thus sitting , the king of the ants whose life he had once saved , came with five thousand ants , and before long the little creatures had got all the pearls together , and laid them in a heap . the second task , however , was to fetch out of the lake the key of the king's daughter's bed-chamber . when simpleton came to the lake , the ducks which he had saved , swam up to him , dived down , and brought the key out of the water . but the third task was the most difficult , from amongst the three sleeping daughters of the king was the youngest and dearest to be sought out . they , however , resembled each other exactly , and were only to be distinguished by their having eaten different sweetmeats before they fell asleep , the eldest a bit of sugar , the second a little syrup , and the youngest a spoonful of honey . then the queen of the bees , whom simpleton had protected from the fire , came and tasted the lips of all three , and at last she remained sitting on the mouth which had eaten honey , and thus the king's son recognized the right princess . then the enchantment was at an end , everything was delivered from sleep , and those who had been turned to stone received once more their natural forms . simpleton married the youngest and sweetest princess , and after her father's death became king , and his two brothers received the two other sisters .