rumpelstiltskin once there was a miller who was poor , but who had a beautiful daughter . now it happened that he had to go and speak to the king , and in order to make himself appear important he said to him , i have a daughter who can spin straw into gold . the king said to the miller , that is an art which pleases me well , if your daughter is as clever as you say , bring her to-morrow to my palace , and i will put her to the test . and when the girl was brought to him he took her into a room which was quite full of straw , gave her a spinning-wheel and a reel , and said , now set to work , and if by to-morrow morning early you have not spun this straw into gold during the night , you must die . thereupon he himself locked up the room , and left her in it alone . so there sat the poor miller's daughter , and for the life of her could not tell what to do , she had no idea how straw could be spun into gold , and she grew more and more frightened , until at last she began to weep . but all at once the door opened , and in came a little man , and said , good evening , mistress miller , why are you crying so . alas , answered the girl , i have to spin straw into gold , and i do not know how to do it . what will you give me , said the manikin , if i do it for you . my necklace , said the girl . the little man took the necklace , seated himself in front of the wheel , and whirr , whirr , whirr , three turns , and the reel was full , then he put another on , and whirr , whirr , whirr , three times round , and the second was full too . and so it went on until the morning , when all the straw was spun , and all the reels were full of gold . by daybreak the king was already there , and when he saw the gold he was astonished and delighted , but his heart became only more greedy . he had the miller's daughter taken into another room full of straw , which was much larger , and commanded her to spin that also in one night if she valued her life . the girl knew not how to help herself , and was crying , when the door opened again , and the little man appeared , and said , what will you give me if i spin that straw into gold for you . the ring on my finger , answered the girl . the little man took the ring , again began to turn the wheel , and by morning had spun all the straw into glittering gold . the king rejoiced beyond measure at the sight , but still he had not gold enough , and he had the miller's daughter taken into a still larger room full of straw , and said , you must spin this , too , in the course of this night , but if you succeed , you shall be my wife . even if she be a miller's daughter , thought he , i could not find a richer wife in the whole world . when the girl was alone the manikin came again for the third time , and said , what will you give me if i spin the straw for you this time also . i have nothing left that i could give , answered the girl . then promise me , if you should become queen , to give me your first child . who knows whether that will ever happen , thought the miller's daughter , and , not knowing how else to help herself in this strait , she promised the manikin what he wanted , and for that he once more spun the straw into gold . and when the king came in the morning , and found all as he had wished , he took her in marriage , and the pretty miller's daughter became a queen . a year after , she brought a beautiful child into the world , and she never gave a thought to the manikin . but suddenly he came into her room , and said , now give me what you promised . the queen was horror-struck , and offered the manikin all the riches of the kingdom if he would leave her the child . but the manikin said , no , something alive is dearer to me than all the treasures in the world . then the queen began to lament and cry , so that the manikin pitied her . i will give you three days , time , said he , if by that time you find out my name , then shall you keep your child . so the queen thought the whole night of all the names that she had ever heard , and she sent a messenger over the country to inquire , far and wide , for any other names that there might be . when the manikin came the next day , she began with caspar , melchior , balthazar , and said all the names she knew , one after another , but to every one the little man said , that is not my name . on the second day she had inquiries made in the neighborhood as to the names of the people there , and she repeated to the manikin the most uncommon and curious . perhaps your name is shortribs , or sheepshanks , or laceleg , but he always answered , that is not my name . on the third day the messenger came back again , and said , i have not been able to find a single new name , but as i came to a high mountain at the end of the forest , where the fox and the hare bid each other good night , there i saw a little house , and before the house a fire was burning , and round about the fire quite a ridiculous little man was jumping , he hopped upon one leg , and shouted - to-day i bake , to-morrow brew , the next i'll have the young queen's child . ha , glad am i that no one knew that rumpelstiltskin i am styled . you may imagine how glad the queen was when she heard the name . and when soon afterwards the little man came in , and asked , now , mistress queen , what is my name , at first she said , is your name conrad ? no . is your name harry ? no . perhaps your name is rumpelstiltskin ? the devil has told you that ! the devil has told you that , cried the little man , and in his anger he plunged his right foot so deep into the earth that his whole leg went in , and then in rage he pulled at his left leg so hard with both hands that he tore himself in two .