there was once upon a time a princess who was extremely proud . if a wooer came she gave him some riddle to guess , and if he could not guess it , he was sent contemptuously away . she let it be made known also that whosoever solved her riddle should marry her , let him be who he might . at length , three tailors fell in with each other , the two eldest of whom thought they had done so many dexterous jobs of work successfully that they could not fail to succeed in this also , the third was a little , useless harum-scarum , who did not even know his trade , but thought he must have some luck in this venture , for where else was it to come from . then the two others said to him , just stay at home , you cannot do much with your little understanding . the little tailor , however , did not let himself be discouraged , and said he had set his mind to work on this for once , and he would manage well enough , and he went forth as if the whole world were his . they all three announced themselves to the princess , and said she was to propound her riddle to them , and that the right persons were now come , who had understandings so fine that they could be threaded in a needle . then said the princess , " i have two kinds of hair on my head , of what color is it . " " if that be all , " said the first , " it must be black and white , like the cloth which is called pepper and salt . " the princess said , " wrongly guessed , let the second answer . " then said the second , " if it be not black and white , then it is brown and red , like my father's sunday coat . " " wrongly guessed , " said the princess , " let the third give the answer for i see very well he knows it for certain . " then the little tailor stepped boldly forth and said , " the princess has a silver and a golden hair on her head , and those are the two different colors . " when the princess heard that , she turned pale and nearly fell down with terror , for the little tailor had guessed her riddle , and she had firmly believed that no man on earth could discover it . when her courage returned she said , " you have not won me yet by that . there is still something else that you must do . below , in the stable is a bear with which you shall pass the night , and when i get up in the morning if you are still alive , you shall marry me . " she expected , however , she would thus get rid of the tailor , for the bear had never yet left anyone alive who had fallen into his clutches . the little tailor did not let himself be frightened away , but was quite delighted , and said , " boldly ventured is half won . " so when the evening came , our little tailor was taken down to the bear . the bear was about to set on the little fellow at once , and give him a hearty welcome with his paws . " softly , softly , " said the little tailor , " i will soon make you quiet . " then quite composedly , and as if he had no anxiety in the world , he took some nuts out of his pocket , cracked them , and ate the kernels . when the bear saw that , he was seized with a desire to have some nuts too . the tailor felt in his pockets , and reached him a handful , they were , however , not nuts , but pebbles . the bear put them in his mouth , but could get nothing out of them , let him bite as he would . " eh , " thought he , " what a stupid blockhead am i , i cannot even crack a nut . " and then he said to the tailor , " here , crack me the nuts . " " there , see what a stupid fellow you are , " said the little tailor , " to have such a great mouth , and not be able to crack a small nut . " then he took the pebble and nimbly put a nut in his mouth in the place of it , and crack , it was in two . " i must try the thing again , " said the bear , " when i watch you , i then think i ought to be able to do it too . " so the tailor once more gave him a pebble , and the bear tried and tried to bite into it with all the strength of his body . but even you do not believe that he managed it . when that was over , the tailor took out a violin from beneath his coat , and played something to himself . when the bear heard the music , he could not help beginning to dance , and when he had danced a while , the thing pleased him so well that he said to the little tailor , " listen , is it difficult to fiddle ? " " easy enough for a child . look , with the left hand i lay my fingers on it , and with the right i stroke it with the bow , and then it goes merrily , hop sa sa vivallalera . " " so , " said the bear , " fiddling is a thing i should like to learn too , that i might dance whenever i felt like it . what do you think of that ? will you give me lessons ? " " with all my heart , " said the tailor , " if you have a talent for it . but just let me see your claws , they are terribly long , i must cut your nails a little . " then a vise was brought , and the bear put his claws in it , and the little tailor screwed it tight , and said , " now wait until i come with the scissors . " and he let the bear growl as he liked , and lay down in the corner on a bundle of straw , and fell asleep . when the princess heard the bear growling so fiercely during the night , she believed nothing else but that he was growling for joy , and had made an end of the tailor . in the morning she arose careless and happy , but when she peeped into the stable , the tailor stood gaily before her , and was as healthy as a fish in water . now she could not say another word against the wedding because she had given a promise before everyone , and the king ordered a carriage to be brought in which she was to drive to church with the tailor , and there she was to be married . when they had climbed into the carriage , the two other tailors , who had false hearts and envied him his good fortune , went into the stable and unscrewed the bear again . the bear in great fury ran after the carriage . the princess heard snorting and growling . she was terrified , and she cried , " ah , the bear is behind us and wants to get you . " the tailor was quick and stood on his head , stuck his legs out of the window , and cried , " do you see the vise ? if you do not be off you shall be put into it again . " when the bear saw that , he turned round and ran away . the tailor drove quietly to church , and the princess was married to him at once , and he lived with her as happy as a woodlark . whosoever does not believe this , must pay a taler .