there was once upon a time a young peasant named hans , whose uncle wanted to find him a rich wife . he therefore seated hans behind the stove , and had it made very hot . then he fetched a pot of milk and plenty of white bread , gave him a bright newly-coined farthing in his hand , and said , hans , hold that farthing fast , crumble the white bread into the milk , and stay where you are , and do not stir from that spot till i come back . yes , said hans , i will do all that . then the uncle put on a pair of old patched trousers , went to a rich peasant's daughter in the next village , and said , won't you marry my nephew hans . you will get an honest and sensible man who will suit you . the covetous father asked , how is it with regard to his means . has he bread to break ? dear friend , replied the uncle , my young nephew has a snug berth , a nice bit of money in hand , and plenty of bread to break , besides he has quite as many patches as i have . and as he spoke , he slapped the patches on his trousers , but in that district small pieces of land were called patches also . if you will give yourself the trouble to go home with me , you shall see at once that all is as i have said . then the miser did not want to lose this good opportunity , and said , if that is the case , i have nothing further to say against the marriage . so the wedding was celebrated on the appointed day , and when the young wife went out of doors to see the bridegroom's property , hans took off his sunday coat and put on his patched smock and said , i might spoil my good coat . then together they went out and wherever a vineyard came in sight , or fields and meadows were divided from each other , hans pointed with his finger and then slapped either a large or a small patch on his smock , and said , that patch is mine , and that too , my dearest , just look at it . meaning thereby that his wife should not stare at the broad land , but look at his garment , which was his own . were you at the wedding too ? yes , indeed i was there , and in full dress . my head-dress was of snow , then the sun came out , and it was melted . my coat was of cobwebs , and i had to pass by some thorns which tore it off me , my shoes were of glass , and i trod on a stone and they said , klink , and broke in two .