there was a great war , and the king had many soldiers , but gave them small pay , so small that they could not live upon it , so three of them agreed among themselves to desert . one of them said to the others , " if we are caught we shall be hanged on the gallows , how shall we manage it ? " another said , " look at that great cornfield , if we were to hide ourselves there , no one could find us , the troops are not allowed to enter it , and to-morrow they are to march away . " they crept into the corn , only the troops did not march away , but remained lying all round about it . they stayed in the corn for two days and two nights , and were so hungry that they all but died , but if they had come out , their death would have been certain . then said they , " what is the use of our deserting if we have to perish miserably here ? " but now a fiery dragon came flying through the air , and it came down to them , and asked why they had concealed themselves there . they answered , " we are three soldiers who have deserted because the pay was so bad , and now we shall have to die of hunger if we stay here , or to dangle on the gallows if we go out . " " if you will serve me for seven years , " said the dragon , " i will convey you through the army so that no one shall seize you . " " we have no choice and are compelled to accept , " they replied . then the dragon caught hold of them with his claws , and carried them away through the air over the army , and put them down again on the earth far from it , but the dragon was no other than the devil . he gave them a small whip and said , " whip with it and crack it , and then as much gold will spring up round about as you can wish for , then you can live like great lords , keep horses , and drive your carriages , but when the seven years have come to an end , you are my property . " then he put before them a book which they were all three forced to sign . " but first i will ask you a riddle , " said he , " and if you can guess it , you shall be free , and released from my power . " then the dragon flew away from them , and they went away with their whip , had gold in plenty , ordered themselves rich apparel , and traveled about the world . wherever they were they lived in pleasure and magnificence , rode on horseback , drove in carriages , ate and drank , but did nothing wicked . the time slipped quickly by , and when the seven years were coming to an end , two of them were terribly anxious and alarmed , but the third took the affair easily , and said , " brothers , fear nothing , i still have my wits about me , i shall guess the riddle . " they went out into the open country and sat down , and the two pulled sorrowful faces . then an aged woman came up to them who inquired why they were so sad . " well , " said they , " what has that got to do with you ? after all , you cannot help us . " " who knows ? " said she . " just confide your trouble to me . " so they told her that they had been the devil's servants for nearly seven years , and that he had provided them with gold as though it were hay , but that they had sold themselves to him , and were forfeited to him , if at the end of the seven years they could not guess a riddle . the old woman said , " if you are to be saved , one of you must go into the forest , there he will come to a fallen rock which looks like a little house , he must enter that , and then he will obtain help . " the two melancholy ones thought to themselves , " that will still not save us , " and stayed where they were , but the third , the merry one , got up and walked on in the forest until he found the rockhouse . in the little house a very aged woman was sitting , who was the devil's grandmother , and asked the soldier where he came from , and what he wanted there . he told her everything that had happened , and as he pleased her well , she had pity on him , and said she would help him . she lifted up a great stone which lay above a cellar , and said , " conceal yourself there , you can hear everything that is said here , only sit still , and do not stir . when the dragon comes , i will question him about the riddle , he tells everything to me , so listen carefully to his answer . " at twelve o'clock at night , the dragon came flying thither , and asked for his dinner . the grandmother laid the table , and served up food and drink , so that he was pleased , and they ate and drank together . in the course of conversation , she asked him what kind of a day he had had , and how many souls he had got . " nothing went very well to-day , " he answered , " but i have laid hold of three soldiers , i have them safe . " " indeed ? three soldiers , they're clever , they may escape you yet . " the devil said mockingly , " they are mine . i will set them a riddle , which they will never be able to guess . " " what riddle is that ? " she inquired . " i will tell you , in the great north sea lies a dead dogfish , that shall be your roast meat , and the rib of a whale shall be your silver spoon , and a hollow old horse's hoof shall be your wineglass . " when the devil had gone to bed , the old grandmother raised up the stone , and let out the soldier . " did you give heed to everything ? " " yes , " said he , " i know enough , and will save myself . " then he had to go back another way , through the window , secretly and with all speed to his companions . he told them how the devil had been outwitted by the old grandmother , and how he had learned the answer to the riddle from him . then they were all delighted , and of good cheer , and took the whip and whipped so much gold for themselves that it ran all over the ground . when the seven years had fully gone by , the devil came with the book , showed the signatures , and said , " i will take you with me to hell . there you shall have a meal . if you can guess what kind of roast meat you will have to eat , you shall be free and released from your bargain , and may keep the whip as well . " then the first soldier began and said , " in the great north sea lies a dead dogfish , that no doubt is the roast meat . " the devil was angry , and began to mutter , " hm . hm . hm . " and asked the second , " but what will your spoon be ? " " the rib of a whale , that is to be our silver spoon . " the devil made a wry face , again growled , " hm . hm . hm . " he said to the third , " and do you also know what your wineglass is to be ? " " an old horse's hoof is to be our wineglass . " then the devil flew away with a loud cry , and had no more power over them , but the three kept the whip , whipped as much money for themselves with it as they wanted , and lived happily to their end .