there was once a wizard who used to take the form of a poor man , and went to houses and begged , and caught pretty girls . no one knew whither he carried them , for they were never seen again . one day he appeared before the door of a man who had three pretty daughters . he looked like a poor weak beggar , and carried a basket on his back , as if he meant to collect charitable gifts in it . he begged for a little food , and when the eldest daughter came out and was just handing him a piece of bread , he did but touch her , and she was forced to jump into his basket . thereupon he hurried off with long strides , and carried her away into a dark forest to his house , which stood in the midst of it . everything in the house was magnificent . he gave her whatsoever she could possibly desire , and said , my darling , you will certainly be happy with me , for you have everything your heart can wish for . this lasted a few days , and then he said , i must journey forth , and leave you alone for a short time . here are the keys of the house . you may go everywhere and look at everything except into one room , which this little key opens , and there i forbid you to go on pain of death . he likewise gave her an egg and said , preserve the egg carefully for me , and carry it continually about with you , for a great misfortune would arise from the loss of it . she took the keys and the egg , and promised to obey him in everything . when he was gone , she went all round the house from the bottom to the top , and examined everything . the rooms shone with silver and gold , and she thought she had never seen such great splendor . at length she came to the forbidden door . she wished to pass it by , but curiosity let her have no rest . she examined the key , it looked just like any other . she put it in the keyhole and turned it a little , and the door sprang open . but what did she see when she went in . a great bloody basin stood in the middle of the room , and therein lay human beings , dead and hewn to pieces , and hard by was a block of wood , and a gleaming axe lay upon it . she was so terribly alarmed that the egg which she held in her hand fell into the basin . she got it out and wiped the blood off , but in vain , it appeared again in a moment . she washed and scrubbed , but she could not get it off . it was not long before the man came back from his journey , and the first things which he asked for were the key and the egg . she gave them to him , but she trembled as she did so , and he saw at once by the red spots that she had been in the bloody chamber . since you have gone into the room against my will , said he , you shall go back into it against your own . your life is ended . he threw her down , dragged her along by her hair , cut her head off on the block , and hewed her in pieces so that her blood ran on the ground . then he threw her into the basin with the rest . now i will fetch myself the second , said the wizard , and again he went to the house in the shape of a poor man , and begged . then the second daughter brought him a piece of bread . he caught her like the first , by simply touching her , and carried her away . she did not fare better than her sister . she allowed herself to be led away by her curiosity , opened the door of the bloody chamber , looked in , and had to atone for it with her life on the wizard's return . then he went and brought the third sister , but she was clever and wily . when he had given her the keys and the egg , and had left her , she first put the egg away with great care , and then she examined the house , and at last went into the forbidden room . alas , what did she behold . both her dear sisters lay there in the basin , cruelly murdered , and cut into pieces . but she began to gather their limbs together and put them in order , head , body , arms and legs . and when nothing further was wanting the limbs began to move and unite themselves together , and both the maidens opened their eyes and were once more alive . then they rejoiced and kissed and caressed each other . on his arrival , the man at once demanded the keys and the egg , and as he could perceive no trace of any blood on it , he said , you have stood the test , you shall be my bride . he now had no longer any power over her , and was forced to do whatsoever she desired . oh , very well , said she , you shall first take a basketful of gold to my father and mother , and carry it yourself on your back . in the meantime i will prepare for the wedding . then she ran to her sisters , whom she had hidden in a little chamber , and said , the moment has come when i can save you . the wretch shall himself carry you home again , but as soon as you are at home send help to me . she put both of them in a basket and covered them quite over with gold , so that nothing of them was to be seen . then she called in the wizard and said to him , now carry the basket away , but i shall look through my little window and watch to see if you stop on the way to stand or to rest . the wizard raised the basket on his back and went away with it , but it weighed him down so heavily that the sweat streamed from his face . then he sat down and wanted to rest awhile , but immediately one of the girls in the basket cried , i am looking through my little window , and i see that you are resting . will you go on at once . he thought it was his bride who was talking to him , and he got up on his legs again . once more he was going to sit down , but instantly she cried , i am looking through my little window , and i see that you are resting . will you go on directly . and whenever he stood still , she cried this , and then he was forced to go onwards , until at last , groaning and out of breath , he took the basket with the gold and the two maidens into their parents , house . at home , however , the bride prepared the marriage-feast , and sent invitations to the friends of the wizard . then she took a skull with grinning teeth , put some ornaments on it and a wreath of flowers , carried it upstairs to the garret-window , and let it look out from thence . when all was ready , she got into a barrel of honey , and then cut the feather-bed open and rolled herself in it , until she looked like a wondrous bird , and no one could recognize her . then she went out of the house , and on her way she met some of the wedding-guests , who asked , o , fitcher's bird , how com'st thou here . i come from fitcher's house quite near . and what may the young bride be doing . from cellar to garret she's swept all clean , and now from the window she's peeping , i ween . at last she met the bridegroom , who was coming slowly back . he , like the others , asked , o , fitcher's bird , how com'st thou here . i come from fitcher's house quite near . and what may the young bride be doing . from cellar to garret she's swept all clean , and now from the window she's peeping , i ween . the bridegroom looked up , saw the decked-out skull , thought it was his bride , and nodded to her , greeting her kindly . but when he and his guests had all gone into the house , the brothers and kinsmen of the bride , who had been sent to rescue her , arrived . they locked all the doors of the house , that no one might escape , set fire to it , and the wizard and all his crew had to burn .