there was a man who had three sons , the youngest of whom was called dummling , and was despised , mocked , and sneered at on every occasion . it happened that the eldest wanted to go into the forest to hew wood , and before he went his mother gave him a beautiful sweet cake and a bottle of wine in order that he might not suffer from hunger or thirst . when he entered the forest he met a little grey-haired old man who bade him good-day , and said , do give me a piece of cake out of your pocket , and let me have a draught of your wine , i am so hungry and thirsty . but the clever son answered , if i give you my cake and wine , i shall have none for myself , be off with you , and he left the little man standing and went on . but when he began to hew down a tree , it was not long before he made a false stroke , and the axe cut him in the arm , so that he had to go home and have it bound up . and this was the little grey man's doing . after this the second son went into the forest , and his mother gave him , like the eldest , a cake and a bottle of wine . the little old grey man met him likewise , and asked him for a piece of cake and a drink of wine . but the second son , too , said sensibly enough , what i give you will be taken away from myself , be off , and he left the little man standing and went on . his punishment , however , was not delayed , when he had made a few blows at the tree he struck himself in the leg , so that he had to be carried home . then dummling said , father , do let me go and cut wood . the father answered , your brothers have hurt themselves with it , leave it alone , you do not understand anything about it . but dummling begged so long that at last he said , just go then , you will get wiser by hurting yourself . his mother gave him a cake made with water and baked in the cinders , and with it a bottle of sour beer . when he came to the forest the little old grey man met him likewise , and greeting him , said , give me a piece of your cake and a drink out of your bottle , i am so hungry and thirsty . dummling answered , i have only cinder-cake and sour beer , if that pleases you , we will sit down and eat . so they sat down , and when dummling pulled out his cinder-cake , it was a fine sweet cake , and the sour beer had become good wine . so they ate and drank , and after that the little man said , since you have a good heart , and are willing to divide what you have , i will give you good luck . there stands an old tree , cut it down , and you will find something at the roots . then the little man took leave of him . dummling went and cut down the tree , and when it fell there was a goose sitting in the roots with feathers of pure gold . he lifted her up , and taking her with him , went to an inn where he thought he would stay the night . now the host had three daughters , who saw the goose and were curious to know what such a wonderful bird might be , and would have liked to have one of its golden feathers . the eldest thought , i shall soon find an opportunity of pulling out a feather , and as soon as dummling had gone out she seized the goose by the wing , but her finger and hand remained sticking fast to it . the second came soon afterwards , thinking only of how she might get a feather for herself , but she had scarcely touched her sister than she was held fast . at last the third also came with the like intent , and the others screamed out , keep away , for goodness , sake keep away . but she did not understand why she was to keep away . the others are there , she thought , i may as well be there too , and ran to them , but as soon as she had touched her sister , she remained sticking fast to her . so they had to spend the night with the goose . the next morning dummling took the goose under his arm and set out , without troubling himself about the three girls who were hanging on to it . they were obliged to run after him continually , now left , now right , wherever his legs took him . in the middle of the fields the parson met them , and when he saw the procession he said , for shame , you good-for-nothing girls , why are you running across the fields after this young man . is that seemly ? at the same time he seized the youngest by the hand in order to pull her away , but as soon as he touched her he likewise stuck fast , and was himself obliged to run behind . before long the sexton came by and saw his master , the parson , running behind three girls . he was astonished at this and called out , hi , your reverence , whither away so quickly . do not forget that we have a christening to-day , and running after him he took him by the sleeve , but was also held fast to it . whilst the five were trotting thus one behind the other , two laborers came with their hoes from the fields , the parson called out to them and begged that they would set him and the sexton free . but they had scarcely touched the sexton when they were held fast , and now there were seven of them running behind dummling and the goose . soon afterwards he came to a city , where a king ruled who had a daughter who was so serious that no one could make her laugh . so he had put forth a decree that whosoever should be able to make her laugh should marry her . when dummling heard this , he went with his goose and all her train before the king's daughter , and as soon as she saw the seven people running on and on , one behind the other , she began to laugh quite loudly , and as if she would never stop . thereupon dummling asked to have her for his wife , but the king did not like the son-in-law , and made all manner of excuses and said he must first produce a man who could drink a cellarful of wine . dummling thought of the little grey man , who could certainly help him , so he went into the forest , and in the same place where he had felled the tree , he saw a man sitting , who had a very sorrowful face . dummling asked him what he was taking to heart so sorely , and he answered , i have such a great thirst and cannot quench it , cold water i cannot stand , a barrel of wine i have just emptied , but that to me is like a drop on a hot stone . there , i can help you , said dummling , just come with me and you shall be satisfied . he led him into the king's cellar , and the man bent over the huge barrels , and drank and drank till his loins hurt , and before the day was out he had emptied all the barrels . then dummling asked once more for his bride , but the king was vexed that such an ugly fellow , whom everyone called dummling , should take away his daughter , and he made a new condition , he must first find a man who could eat a whole mountain of bread . dummling did not think long , but went straight into the forest , where in the same place there sat a man who was tying up his body with a strap , and making an awful face , and saying , i have eaten a whole ovenful of rolls , but what good is that when one has such a hunger as i . my stomach remains empty , and i must tie myself up if i am not to die of hunger . at this dummling was glad , and said , get up and come with me , you shall eat yourself full . he led him to the king's palace , where all the flour in the whole kingdom was collected , and from it he caused a huge mountain of bread to be baked . the man from the forest stood before it , began to eat , and by the end of one day the whole mountain had vanished . then dummling for the third time asked for his bride , but the king again sought a way out , and ordered a ship which could sail on land and on water . as soon as you come sailing back in it , said he , you shall have my daughter for wife . dummling went straight into the forest , and there sat the little grey man to whom he had given his cake . when he heard what dummling wanted , he said , since you have given me to eat and to drink , i will give you the ship , and i do all this because you once were kind to me . then he gave him the ship which could sail on land and water , and when the king saw that , he could no longer prevent him from having his daughter . the wedding was celebrated , and after the king's death , dummling inherited his kingdom and lived for a long time contentedly with his wife .