little brother took his little sister by the hand and said , since our mother died we have had no happiness . our step-mother beats us every day , and if we come near her she kicks us away with her foot . our meals are the hard crusts of bread that are left over . and the little dog under the table is better off , for she often throws it a choice morsel . god pity us , if our mother only knew . come , we will go forth together into the wide world . they walked the whole day over meadows , fields , and stony places . and when it rained the little sister said , heaven and our hearts are weeping together . in the evening they came to a large forest , and they were so weary with sorrow and hunger and the long walk , that they lay down in a hollow tree and fell asleep . the next day when they awoke , the sun was already high in the sky , and shone down hot into the tree . then the brother said , sister , i am thirsty . if i knew of a little brook i would go and just take a drink . i think i hear one running . the brother got up and took the little sister by the hand , and they set off to find the brook . but the wicked step-mother was a witch , and had seen how the two children had gone away , and had crept after them secretly , as witches creep , and had bewitched all the brooks in the forest . now when they found a little brook leaping brightly over the stones , the brother was going to drink out of it , but the sister heard how it said as it ran , who drinks of me will be a tiger . who drinks of me will be a tiger . then the sister cried , pray , dear brother , do not drink , or you will become a wild beast , and tear me to pieces . the brother did not drink , although he was so thirsty , but said , i will wait for the next spring . when they came to the next brook the sister heard this also say , who drinks of me will be a wolf . who drinks of me will be a wolf . then the sister cried out , pray , dear brother , do not drink , or you will become a wolf , and devour me . the brother did not drink , and said , i will wait until we come to the next spring , but then i must drink , say what you like . for my thirst is too great . and when they came to the third brook the sister heard how it said as it ran , who drinks of me will be a roebuck . who drinks of me will be a roebuck . the sister said , oh , i pray you , dear brother , do not drink , or you will become a roebuck , and run away from me . but the brother had knelt down at once by the brook , and had bent down and drunk some of the water , and as soon as the first drops touched his lips he lay there in the form of a young roebuck . and now the sister wept over her poor bewitched brother , and the little roe wept also , and sat sorrowfully near to her . but at last the girl said , be quiet , dear little roe , i will never , never leave you . then she untied her golden garter and put it round the roebuck's neck , and she plucked rushes and wove them into a soft cord . this she tied to the little animal and led it on , and she walked deeper and deeper into the forest . and when they had gone a very long way they came at last to a little house , and the girl looked in . and as it was empty , she thought , we can stay here and live . then she sought for leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the roe . and every morning she went out and gathered roots and berries and nuts for herself , and brought tender grass for the roe , who ate out of her hand , and was content and played round about her . in the evening , when the sister was tired , and had said her prayer , she laid her head upon the roebuck's back - that was her pillow , and she slept softly on it . and if only the brother had had his human form it would have been a delightful life . for some time they were alone like this in the wilderness . but it happened that the king of the country held a great hunt in the forest . then the blasts of the horns , the barking of dogs and the merry shouts of the huntsmen rang through the trees , and the roebuck heard all , and was only too anxious to be there . oh , said he , to his sister , let me be off to the hunt , i cannot bear it any longer , and he begged so much that at last she agreed . but , said she to him , come back to me in the evening . i must shut my door for fear of the rough huntsmen , so knock and say , my little sister , let me in , that i may know you . and if you do not say that , i shall not open the door . then the young roebuck sprang away . so happy was he and so merry in the open air . the king and the huntsmen saw the lovely animal , and started after him , but they could not catch him , and when they thought that they surely had him , away he sprang through the bushes and vanished . when it was dark he ran to the cottage , knocked , and said , my little sister , let me in . then the door was opened for him , and he jumped in , and rested himself the whole night through upon his soft bed . the next day the hunt began again , and when the roebuck once more heard the bugle-horn , and the ho . ho . of the huntsmen , he had no peace , but said , sister , let me out , i must be off . his sister opened the door for him , and said , but you must be here again in the evening and say your pass-word . when the king and his huntsmen again saw the young roebuck with the golden collar , they all chased him , but he was too quick and nimble for them . this lasted the whole day , but by the evening the huntsmen had surrounded him , and one of them wounded him a little in the foot , so that he limped and ran slowly . then a hunter crept after him to the cottage and heard how he said , my little sister , let me in , and saw that the door was opened for him , and was shut again at once . the huntsman took notice of it all , and went to the king and told him what he had seen and heard . then the king said , to-morrow we will hunt once more . the little sister , however , was dreadfully frightened when she saw that her fawn was hurt . she washed the blood off him , laid herbs on the wound , and said , go to your bed , dear roe , that you may get well again . but the wound was so slight that the roebuck , next morning , did not feel it any more . and when he again heard the sport outside , he said , i cannot bear it , i must be there . they shall not find it so easy to catch me . the sister cried , and said , this time they will kill you , and here am i alone in the forest and forsaken by all the world . i will not let you out . then you will have me die of grief , answered the roe . when i hear the bugle-horns i feel as if i must jump out of my skin . then the sister could not do otherwise , but opened the door for him with a heavy heart , and the roebuck , full of health and joy , bounded into the forest . when the king saw him , he said to his huntsmen , now chase him all day long till night-fall , but take care that no one does him any harm . as soon as the sun had set , the king said to the huntsman , now come and show me the cottage in the wood . and when he was at the door , he knocked and called out , dear little sister , let me in . then the door opened , and the king walked in , and there stood a maiden more lovely than any he had ever seen . the maiden was frightened when she saw , not her little roe , but a man come in who wore a golden crown upon his head . but the king looked kindly at her , stretched out his hand , and said , will you go with me to my palace and be my dear wife . yes , indeed , answered the maiden , but the little roe must go with me , i cannot leave him . the king said , it shall stay with you as long as you live , and shall want nothing . just then he came running in , and the sister again tied him with the cord of rushes , took it in her own hand , and went away with the king from the cottage . the king took the lovely maiden upon his horse and carried her to his palace , where the wedding was held with great pomp . she was now the queen , and they lived for a long time happily together . the roebuck was tended and cherished , and ran about in the palace-garden . but the wicked step-mother , because of whom the children had gone out into the world , had never thought but that the sister had been torn to pieces by the wild beasts in the wood , and that the brother had been shot for a roebuck by the huntsmen . now when she heard that they were so happy , and so well off , envy and jealousy rose in her heart and left her no peace , and she thought of nothing but how she could bring them again to misfortune . her own daughter , who was ugly as night , and had only one eye , reproached her and said , a queen . that ought to have been my luck . just be quiet , answered the old woman , and comforted her by saying , when the time comes i shall be ready . as time went on the queen had a pretty little boy , and it happened that the king was out hunting . so the old witch took the form of the chamber maid , went into the room where the queen lay , and said to her , come the bath is ready . it will do you good , and give you fresh strength . make haste before it gets cold . her daughter also was close by . so they carried the weakly queen into the bath-room , and put her into the bath . then they shut the door and ran away . but in the bath-room they had made a fire of such hellish heat that the beautiful young queen was soon suffocated . when this was done the old woman took her daughter , put a nightcap on her head , and laid her in bed in place of the queen . she gave her too the shape and look of the queen , only she could not make good the lost eye . but in order that the king might not see it , she was to lie on the side on which she had no eye . in the evening when he came home and heard that he had a son he was heartily glad , and was going to the bed of his dear wife to see how she was . but the old woman quickly called out , for your life leave the curtains closed . the queen ought not to see the light yet , and must have rest . the king went away , and did not find out that a false queen was lying in the bed . but at midnight , when all slept , the nurse , who was sitting in the nursery by the cradle , and who was the only person awake , saw the door open and the true queen walk in . she took the child out of the cradle , laid it on her arm , and suckled it . then she shook up its pillow , laid the child down again , and covered it with the little quilt . and she did not forget the roebuck , but went into the corner where it lay , and stroked its back . then she went quite silently out of the door again . the next morning the nurse asked the guards whether anyone had come into the palace during the night , but they answered , no , we have seen no one . she came thus many nights and never spoke a word . the nurse always saw her , but she did not dare to tell anyone about it . when some time had passed in this manner , the queen began to speak in the night , and said , how fares my child , how fares my roe . twice shall i come , then never more . the nurse did not answer , but when the queen had gone again , went to the king and told him all . the king said , ah , god . what is this . to-morrow night i will watch by the child . in the evening he went into the nursery , and at midnight the queen again appeared and said , how fares my child , how fares my roe . once will i come , then never more . and she nursed the child as she was wont to do before she disappeared . the king dared not speak to her , but on the next night he watched again . then she said , how fares my child , how fares my roe . this time i come , then never more . then the king could not restrain himself . he sprang towards her , and said , you can be none other than my dear wife . she answered , yes , i am your dear wife , and at the same moment she received life again , and by god's grace became fresh , rosy and full of health . then she told the king the evil deed which the wicked witch and her daughter had been guilty of towards her . the king ordered both to be led before the judge , and the judgment was delivered against them . the daughter was taken into the forest where she was torn to pieces by wild beasts , but the witch was cast into the fire and miserably burnt . and as soon as she was burnt to ashes , the roebuck changed his shape , and received his human form again , so the sister and brother lived happily together all their lives .