lean lisa was of a very different way of thinking from lazy harry and fat trina , who never let anything disturb their peace . she slaved away from morning till evening , and burdened her husband , long laurence , with so much work that he had heavier weights to carry than an ass with three sacks . but it was all to no purpose , for they had nothing and came to nothing . one night as she lay in bed , and could hardly move one limb for weariness , she still did not allow her thoughts to go to sleep . she thrust her elbow into her husband's side , and said , listen , lenz , to what i have been thinking . if i were to find one florin and one was given to me , i would borrow another to put to them , and you too should give me another , and then as soon as i had got the four florins together , i would buy a young cow . this pleased the husband right well . it is true , said he , that i do not know where i am to get the florin which you want as a gift from me . but , if you can get the money together , and can buy a cow with it , you will do well to carry out your project . i shall be glad , he added , if the cow has a calf , and then i shall often get a drink of milk to refresh me . the milk is not for you , said the woman , we must let the calf suck that it may become big and fat , and we may be able to sell it well . certainly , replied the man , but still we will take a little milk . that will do no harm . who has taught you to manage cows , said the woman . whether it does harm or not , i will not allow it , and even if you were to stand on your head for it , you should not have a drop of the milk . do you think , because there is no satisfying you , long laurence , that you are to eat up what i earn with so much difficulty . wife , said the man , be quiet , or i will give you a blow on your mouth . what , cried she , you threaten me , you glutton , you rascal , you lazy harry . she was just laying hold of his hair , but long laurence got up , seized both lean lisa's withered arms in one hand , and with the other he pressed down her head into the pillow , let her scold , and held her until she fell asleep for very weariness . whether she continued to wrangle when she awoke next morning , or whether she went out to look for the florin which she wanted to find , that i know not .