when adam and eve were driven out of paradise , they were compelled to build a house for themselves on barren ground , and eat their bread in the sweat of their brow . adam dug up the land , and eve spun . every year eve brought a child into the world , but the children were unlike each other , some pretty , and some ugly . after a considerable time had gone by , god sent an angel to them , to announce that he was coming to inspect their household . eve , delighted that the lord should be so gracious , cleaned her house diligently , decked it with flowers , and strewed rushes on the floor . then she brought in her children , but only the beautiful ones . she washed and bathed them , combed their hair , put clean raiment on them , and cautioned them to conduct themselves decorously and modestly in the presence of the lord . they were to bow down before him civilly , hold out their hands , and to answer his questions modestly and sensibly . the ugly children , however , were not to let themselves be seen . one hid himself beneath the hay , another under the roof , a third in the straw , the fourth in the stove , the fifth in the cellar , the sixth under a tub , the seventh beneath the wine-cask , the eighth under an old fur cloak , the ninth and tenth beneath the cloth out of which she always made their clothes , and the eleventh and twelfth under the leather out of which she cut their shoes . she had scarcely got ready , before there was a knock at the house-door . adam looked through a chink , and saw that it was the lord . adam opened the door respectfully , and the heavenly father entered . there , in a row , stood the pretty children , and bowed before him , held out their hands , and knelt down . the lord , however , began to bless them , laid his hands on the first , and said , thou shalt be a powerful king , and to the second , thou a prince , to the third , thou a count , to the fourth , thou a knight , to the fifth , thou a nobleman , to the sixth , thou a burgher , to the seventh , thou a merchant , to the eighth , thou a learned man . he bestowed upon them also all his richest blessings . when eve saw that the lord was so mild and gracious , she thought , i will bring hither my ill-favored children also , it may be that he will bestow his blessing on them likewise . so she ran and brought them out of the hay , the straw , the stove , and wherever else she had concealed them . then came the whole coarse , dirty , scabby , sooty band . the lord smiled , looked at them all , and said , i will bless these also . he laid his hands on the first , and said to him , thou shalt be a peasant , to the second , thou a fisherman , to the third , thou a smith , to the fourth , thou a tanner , to the fifth , thou a weaver , to the sixth , thou a shoemaker , to the seventh , thou a tailor , to the eighth , thou a potter , to the ninth , thou a waggoner , to the tenth , thou a sailor , to the eleventh , thou a messenger , to the twelfth , thou a scullion all the days of thy life . when eve had heard all this she said , lord , how unequally thou dividest thy gifts . after all they are all of them my children , whom i have brought into the world , thy favors should be given to all alike . but god answered , eve , thou dost not understand . it is right and necessary that the entire world should be supplied from thy children . if they were all princes and lords , who would grow corn , thresh it , grind and bake it . who would be blacksmiths , weavers , carpenters , masons , laborers , tailors and seamstresses . each shall have his own place , so that one shall support the other , and all shall be fed like the limbs of one body . then eve answered , ah , lord , forgive me , i was too quick in speaking to thee . have thy divine will with my children .