there were once three apprentices , who had agreed to keep always together while traveling , and always to work in the same town . at one time , however , their masters had no more work to give them , so that at last they were in rags , and had nothing to live on . then one of them said , what shall we do . we cannot stay here any longer , we will travel once more , and if we do not find any work in the town we go to , we will arrange with the innkeeper there , that we are to write and tell him where we are staying , so that we can always have news of each other , and then we will separate . and that seemed best to the others also . they went forth , and met on the way a richly-dressed man who asked who they were . we are apprentices looking for work . up to this time we have kept together , but if we cannot find anything to do we are going to separate . there is no need for that , said the man , if you will do what i tell you , you shall not want for gold or for work . nay , you shall become great lords , and drive in your carriages . one of them said , if our souls and salvation be not endangered , we will certainly do it . they will not , replied the man , i have no claim on you . one of the others , however , had looked at his feet , and when he saw a horse's foot and a man's foot , he did not want to have anything to do with him . then the devil said , be easy , i have no designs on you , but on another soul , which is half my own already , and whose measure shall but run full . as they were now secure , they consented , and the devil told them what he wanted . the first was to answer , all three of us , to every question . the second was to say , for money , and the third , and quite right too . they were always to say this , one after the other , but they were not to say one word more , and if they disobeyed this order , all their money would disappear at once , but so long as they observed it , their pockets would always be full . as a beginning , he at once gave them as much as they could carry , and told them to go to such and such an inn when they got to the town . they went to it , and the innkeeper came to meet them , and asked if they wished for anything to eat . the first replied , all three of us . yes , said the host , that is what i mean . the second said , for money . of course , said the host . the third said , and quite right too . certainly it is right , said the host . good meat and drink were now brought to them , and they were well waited on . after the dinner came the payment , and the innkeeper gave the bill to the one who said , all three of us , the second said , for money , and the third , and quite right too . indeed it is right , said the host , all three pay , and without money i can give nothing . they , however , paid even more than he had asked . the lodgers , who were looking on , said , these people must be mad . yes , indeed they are , said the host , they are not very wise . so they stayed some time in the inn , and said nothing else but , all three of us , for money , and and quite right too . but they saw and knew all that was going on . it so happened that a great merchant came with a large sum of money , and said , sir host , take care of my money for me , here are three crazy apprentices who might steal it from me . the host did as he was asked . as he was carrying the trunk into his room , he felt that it was heavy with gold . thereupon he gave the three apprentices a lodging below , but the merchant received a separate apartment upstairs . when it was midnight , and the host thought that all were asleep , he came with his wife , and they had an axe and struck the rich merchant dead . and after they had murdered him they went to bed again . when it was day there was a great outcry . the merchant lay dead in bed bathed in blood . all the guests came running out , but the host said , the three crazy apprentices have done this . the lodgers confirmed it , and said , it can have been no one else . the innkeeper , however , had them called , and said to them , have you killed the merchant . all three of us , said the first . for money , said the second . and the third added , and quite right too . there now , you hear , said the host , they confess it themselves . they were taken to prison , therefore , and were to be tried . when they saw that things were going so seriously , they were after all afraid , but at night the devil came and said , bear it just one day longer , and do not spurn your luck , not one hair of your head shall be hurt . the next morning they were led to the bar , and the judge said , are you the murderers . all three of us . why did you kill the merchant . for money . you wicked wretches , you have no horror of your sins . and quite right too . they have confessed , and are still stubborn , said the judge , lead them to death instantly . so they were taken out , and the host had to go with them into the circle . when they were taken hold of by the executioner's men , and were just going to be led up to the scaffold where the hangman was standing with naked sword , a coach drawn by four chestnut horses came up suddenly , driving so fast that fire flashed from the stones , and someone made signs from the window with a white handkerchief . then said the hangman , it is a pardon coming , and pardon , pardon , was called from the carriage also . then the devil stepped out as a very noble gentleman , beautifully dressed , and said , you three are innocent . you may now speak , make known what you have seen and heard . then said the eldest , we did not kill the merchant , the murderer is standing there in the circle , and he pointed to the innkeeper . in proof of this , go into his cellar , where many others whom he has killed are still hanging . then the judge sent the executioner's men thither , and they found it was as the apprentices said , and when they had informed the judge of this , he caused the innkeeper to be led up , and his head was cut off . then said the devil to the three , now i have got the soul which i wanted to have , and you are free , and have money for the rest of your lives .