a rich farmer was one day standing in his yard inspecting his fields and gardens . the corn was growing up vigorously and the fruit-trees were heavily laden with fruit . the grain of the year before still lay in such immense heaps in the loft that the rafters could hardly bear it . then he went into the stable , where were well-fed oxen , fat cows , and horses bright as looking-glass . at length he went back into his sitting-room , and cast a glance at the iron chest in which his money lay . whilst he was thus standing surveying his riches , all at once there was a loud knock close by him . the knock was not at the door of his room , but at the door of his heart . it opened , and he heard a voice which said to him , have you done good to your family with it . have you considered the necessities of the poor . have you shared your bread with the hungry . have you been contented with what you have , or did you always desire to have more . the heart was not slow in answering , i have been hard and pitiless , and have never shown any kindness to my own family . if a beggar came , i turned away my eyes from him . i have not troubled myself about god , but have thought only of increasing my wealth . if everything which the sky covers had been mine own , i should still not have had enough . when he was aware of this answer he was greatly alarmed , his knees began to tremble , and he was forced to sit down . then there was another knock , but the knock was at the door of his room . it was his neighbor , a poor man who had a number of children whom he could no longer satisfy with food . i know , thought the poor man , that my neighbor is rich , but he is as hard as he is rich . i don't believe he will help me , but my children are crying for bread , so i will venture it . he said to the rich man , you do not readily give away anything that is yours , but i stand here like one who feels the water rising above his head . my children are starving , lend me four measures of corn . the rich man looked at him long , and then the first sunbeam of mercy began to melt away a drop of the ice of greediness . i will not lend you four measures , he answered . i will make you a present of eight , but you must fulfil one condition . what am i to do , said the poor man . when i am dead , you shall watch for three nights by my grave . the peasant was disturbed in his mind at this request , but in the need in which he was , he would have consented to anything . he accepted , therefore , and carried the corn home with him . it seemed as if the rich man had foreseen what was about to happen , for when three days were gone by , he suddenly dropped down dead . no one knew exactly how it came to pass , but no one grieved for him . when he was buried , the poor man remembered his promise . he would willingly have been released from it , but he thought , after all , he acted kindly by me . i have fed my hungry children with his corn , and even if that were not the case , where i have once given my promise i must keep it . at nightfall he went into the churchyard , and seated himself on the grave-mound . everything was quiet , only the moon appeared above the grave , and frequently an owl flew past and uttered her melancholy cry . when the sun rose , the poor man betook himself in safety to his home , and in the same manner the second night passed quietly by . on the evening of the third day he felt a strange uneasiness , it seemed to him that something was about to happen . when he went out he saw , by the churchyard-wall , a man whom he had never seen before . he was no longer young , had scars on his face , and his eyes looked sharply and eagerly around . he was entirely covered with an old cloak , and nothing was visible but his great riding-boots . what are you looking for here , the peasant asked . are you not afraid of the lonely churchyard . i am looking for nothing , he answered , and i am afraid of nothing . i am like the youngster who went forth to learn how to shudder , and had his labor for his pains , but got the king's daughter to wife and great wealth with her , only i have remained poor . i am nothing but a paid-off soldier , and i mean to pass the night here , because i have no other shelter . if you are without fear , said the peasant , stay with me , and help me to watch that grave there . to keep watch is a soldier's business , he replied , whatever we fall in with here , whether it be good or bad , we will share it between us . the peasant agreed to this , and they seated themselves on the grave together . all was quiet until midnight , when suddenly a shrill whistling was heard in the air , and the two watchers perceived the evil one standing bodily before them . be off , you scoundrels , cried he to them , the man who lies in that grave belongs to me . i want to take him , and if you don't go away i will wring your necks . sir with the red feather , said the soldier , you are not my captain , i have no need to obey you , and i have not yet learned what fear is . go away , we shall stay sitting here . the devil thought to himself , money is the best means with which to lay hold of these two vagabonds . so he began to play a softer tune , and asked quite kindly , if they would not accept a bag of money , and go home with it . that is worth listening to , answered the soldier , but one bag of gold won't serve us . if you will give as much as will go into one of my boots , we will quit the field for you and go away . i have not so much as that about me , said the devil , but i will fetch it . in the neighboring town lives a money-changer who is a good friend of mine , and will readily advance it to me . when the devil had vanished the soldier took his left boot off , and said , we will soon pull the charcoal-burner's nose for him , just give me your knife , comrade . he cut the sole off the boot , and put it in the high grass near the grave on the edge of a hole that was half over-grown . that will do , said he . now the chimney-sweep may come . they both sat down and waited , and it was not long before the devil returned with a small bag of gold in his hand . just pour it in , said the soldier , raising up the boot a little , but that won't be enough . the black one shook out all that was in the bag . the gold fell through , and the boot remained empty . stupid devil , cried the soldier , it won't do . didn't i say so at once . go back again , and bring more . the devil shook his head , went , and in an hour's time came with a much larger bag under his arm . now pour it in , cried the soldier , but i doubt the boot will be full . the gold clinked as it fell , but the boot remained empty . the devil looked in himself with his burning eyes , and convinced himself of the truth . you have shamefully big calves to your legs , cried he , and made a wry face . did you think , replied the soldier , that i had a cloven foot like you . since when have you been so stingy . see that you get more gold together , or our bargain will come to nothing . the wicked one went off again . this time he stayed away longer , and when at length he appeared he was panting under the weight of a sack which lay on his shoulders . he emptied it into the boot , which was just as far from being filled as before . he became furious , and was just going to tear the boot out of the soldier's hands , but at that moment the first ray of the rising sun broke forth from the sky , and the evil spirit fled away with loud shrieks . the poor soul was saved . the peasant wished to divide the gold , but the soldier said , give what falls to my lot to the poor , i will come with you to your cottage , and together we will live in rest and peace on what remains , as long as god is pleased to permit .