there was once a poor peasant who sat in the evening by the hearth and poked the fire , and his wife sat and spun . then said he , how sad it is that we have no children . with us all is so quiet , and in other houses it is noisy and lively . yes , replied the wife , and sighed , even if we had only one , and it were quite small , and only as big as a thumb , i should be quite satisfied , and we would still love it with all our hearts . now it so happened that the woman fell ill , and after seven months gave birth to a child , that was perfect in all its limbs , but no longer than a thumb . then said they , it is as we wished it to be , and it shall be our dear child . and because of its size , they called it thumbling . though they did not let it want for food , the child did not grow taller , but remained as it had been at the first . nevertheless it looked sensibly out of its eyes , and soon showed itself to be a wise and nimble creature , for everything it did turned out well . one day the peasant was getting ready to go into the forest to cut wood , when he said as if to himself , how i wish that there was someone who would bring the cart to me . oh father , cried thumbling , i will soon bring the cart , rely on that . it shall be in the forest at the appointed time . the man smiled and said , how can that be done , you are far too small to lead the horse by the reins . that's of no consequence , father , if my mother will only harness it , i shall sit in the horse's ear and call out to him how he is to go . well , answered the man , for once we will try it . when the time came , the mother harnessed the horse , and placed thumbling in its ear , and then the little creature cried , gee up , gee up . then it went quite properly as if with its master , and the cart went the right way into the forest . it so happened that just as he was turning a corner , and the little one was crying , gee up , two strange men came towards him . my word , said one of them , what is this . there is a cart coming , and a driver is calling to the horse and still he is not to be seen . that can't be right , said the other , we will follow the cart and see where it stops . the cart , however , drove right into the forest , and exactly to the place where the wood had been cut . when thumbling saw his father , he cried to him , do you see , father , here i am with the cart , now take me down . the father got hold of the horse with his left hand and with the right took his little son out of the ear . thumbling sat down quite merrily on a straw , but when the two strange men saw him , they did not know what to say for astonishment . then one of them took the other aside and said , listen , the little fellow would make our fortune if we exhibited him in a large town , for money . we will buy him . they went to the peasant and said , sell us the little man . he shall be well treated with us . no , replied the father , he is the apple of my eye , and all the money in the world cannot buy him from me . thumbling , however , when he heard of the bargain , had crept up the folds of his father's coat , placed himself on his shoulder , and whispered in his ear , father do give me away , i will soon come back again . then the father parted with him to the two men for a handsome sum of money . where will you sit , they said to him . oh just set me on the rim of your hat , and then i can walk backwards and forwards and look at the country , and still not fall down . they did as he wished , and when thumbling had taken leave of his father , they went away with him . they walked until it was dusk , and then the little fellow said , do take me down , it is necessary . just stay up there , said the man on whose hat he sat , it makes no difference to me . the birds sometimes let things fall on me . no , said thumbling , i know what's manners , take me quickly down . the man took his hat off , and put the little fellow on the ground by the wayside , and he leapt and crept about a little between the sods , and then he suddenly slipped into a mousehole which he had sought out . good evening , gentlemen , just go home without me , he cried to them , and mocked them . they ran thither and stuck their sticks into the mousehole , but it was all in vain . thumbling crept still farther in , and as it soon became quite dark , they were forced to go home with their vexation and their empty purses . when thumbling saw that they were gone , he crept back out of the subterranean passage . it is so dangerous to walk on the ground in the dark , said he , how easily a neck or a leg is broken . fortunately he stumbled against an empty snail-shell . thank god , said he , in that i can pass the night in safety . and got into it . not long afterwards , when he was just going to sleep , he heard two men go by , and one of them was saying , how shall we set about getting hold of the rich pastor's silver and gold . i could tell you that , cried thumbling , interrupting them . what was that , said one of the thieves in fright , i heard someone speaking . they stood still listening , and thumbling spoke again , and said , take me with you , and i'll help you . but where are you . just look on the ground , and observe from whence my voice comes , he replied . there the thieves at length found him , and lifted him up . you little imp , how will you help us , they said . listen , said he , i will creep into the pastor's room through the iron bars , and will reach out to you whatever you want to have . come then , they said , and we will see what you can do . when they got to the pastor's house , thumbling crept into the room , but instantly cried out with all his might , do you want to have everything that is here . the thieves were alarmed , and said , but do speak softly , so as not to waken any one . thumbling however , behaved as if he had not understood this , and cried again , what do you want . do you want to have everything that is here . the cook , who slept in the next room , heard this and sat up in bed , and listened . the thieves , however , had in their fright run some distance away , but at last they took courage , and thought , the little rascal wants to mock us . they came back and whispered to him , come be serious , and reach something out to us . then thumbling again cried as loudly as he could , i really will give you everything , just put your hands in . the maid who was listening , heard this quite distinctly , and jumped out of bed and rushed to the door . the thieves took flight , and ran as if the wild huntsman were behind them , but as the maid could not see anything , she went to strike a light . when she came to the place with it , thumbling , unperceived , betook himself to the granary , and the maid after she had examined every corner and found nothing , lay down in her bed again , and believed that , after all , she had only been dreaming with open eyes and ears . thumbling had climbed up among the hay and found a beautiful place to sleep in . there he intended to rest until day , and then go home again to his parents . but there were other things in store for him . truly , there is much worry and affliction in this world . when the day dawned , the maid arose from her bed to feed the cows . her first walk was into the barn , where she laid hold of an armful of hay , and precisely that very one in which poor thumbling was lying asleep . he , however , was sleeping so soundly that he was aware of nothing , and did not awake until he was in the mouth of the cow , who had picked him up with the hay . ah , heavens , cried he , how have i got into the fulling mill . but he soon discovered where he was . then he had to take care not to let himself go between the teeth and be dismembered , but he was subsequently forced to slip down into the stomach with the hay . in this little room the windows are forgotten , said he , and no sun shines in , neither will a candle be brought . his quarters were especially unpleasing to him , and the worst was that more and more hay was always coming in by the door , and the space grew less and less . when at length in his anguish , he cried as loud as he could , bring me no more fodder , bring me no more fodder . the maid was just milking the cow , and when she heard some one speaking , and saw no one , and perceived that it was the same voice that she had heard in the night , she was so terrified that she slipped off her stool , and spilt the milk . she ran in great haste to her master , and said , oh heavens , pastor , the cow has been speaking . you are mad , replied the pastor , but he went himself to the byre to see what was there . hardly , however had he set his foot inside when thumbling again cried , bring me no more fodder , bring me no more fodder . then the pastor himself was alarmed , and thought that an evil spirit had gone into the cow , and ordered her to be killed . she was killed , but the stomach , in which thumbling was , was thrown on the dunghill . thumbling had great difficulty in working his way out . however , he succeeded so far as to get some room , but just as he was going to thrust his head out , a new misfortune occurred . a hungry wolf ran thither , and swallowed the whole stomach at one gulp . thumbling did not lose courage . perhaps , thought he , the wolf will listen to what i have got to say . and he called to him from out of his belly , dear wolf , i know of a magnificent feast for you . where is it to be had , said the wolf . in such and such a house . you must creep into it through the kitchen-sink , and will find cakes , and bacon , and sausages , and as much of them as you can eat . and he described to him exactly his father's house . the wolf did not require to be told this twice , squeezed himself in at night through the sink , and ate to his heart's content in the larder . when he had eaten his fill , he wanted to go out again , but he had become so big that he could not go out by the same way . thumbling had reckoned on this , and now began to make a violent noise in the wolf's body , and raged and screamed as loudly as he could . will you be quiet , said the wolf , you will waken up the people . what do i care , replied the little fellow , you have eaten your fill , and i will make merry likewise . and began once more to scream with all his strength . at last his father and mother were aroused by it , and ran to the room and looked in through the opening in the door . when they saw that a wolf was inside , they ran away , and teh husband fetched his axe , and the wife the scythe . stay behind , said the man , when they entered the room . when i have given the blow , if he is not killed by it , you must cut him down and hew his body to pieces . then thumbling heard his parents , voices and cried , dear father , i am here , i am in the wolf's body . said the father , full of joy , thank god , our dear child has found us again . and bade the woman take away her scythe , that thumbling might not be hurt with it . after that he raised his arm , and struck the wolf such a blow on his head that he fell down dead , and then they got knives and scissors and cut his body open and drew the little fellow forth . ah , said the father , what sorrow we have gone through for your sake . yes father , i have gone about the world a great deal . thank heaven , i breathe fresh air again . where have you been , then . ah , father , i have been in a mouse's hole , in a cow's belly , and then in a wolf's paunch . now i will stay with you . and we will not sell you again , no not for all the riches in the world , said his parents , and they embraced and kissed their dear thumbling . they gave him to eat and to drink , and had some new clothes made for him , for his own had been spoiled on his journey .