there was once a man who understood all kinds of arts . he served in war , and behaved well and bravely , but when the war was over he received his dismissal , and three farthings for his expenses on the way . wait , said he , i shall not be content with this . if i can only meet with the right people , the king will yet have to give me all the treasure of the country . then full of anger he went into the forest , and saw a man standing therein who had plucked up six trees as if they were blades of corn . he said to him , will you be my servant and go with me . yes , he answered , but , first , i will take this little bundle of sticks home to my mother , and he took one of the trees , and wrapped it round the five others , lifted the bundle on his back , and carried it away . then he returned and went with his master , who said , we two ought to be able to get through the world very well , and when they had walked on for a short while they found a huntsman who was kneeling , had shouldered his gun , and was about to fire . the master said to him , huntsman , what are you going to shoot . he answered , two miles from here a fly is sitting on the branch of an oak-tree , and i want to shoot its left eye out . oh , come with me , said the man , if we three are together , we certainly ought to be able to get on in the world . the huntsman was ready , and went with him , and they came to seven windmills whose sails were turning round with great speed , and yet no wind was blowing either on the right or the left , and no leaf was stirring . then said the man , i know not what is driving the windmills , not a breath of air is stirring , and he went onwards with his servants , and when they had walked two miles they saw a man sitting on a tree who was shutting one nostril , and blowing out of the other . good gracious . what are you doing up there . he answered , two miles from here are seven windmills . look , i am blowing them till they turn round . oh , come with me , said the man . if we four are together , we shall carry the whole world before us . then the blower came down and went with him , and after a while they saw a man who was standing on one leg and had taken off the other , and laid it beside him . then the master said , you have arranged things very comfortably to have a rest . i am a runner , he replied , and to stop myself running far too fast , i have taken off one of my legs , for if i run with both , i go quicker than any bird can fly . oh , go with me . if we five are together , we shall carry the whole world before us . so he went with them , and it was not long before they met a man who wore a cap , but wore it entirely over one ear . then the master said to him , gracefully , gracefully , don't stick your cap on one ear , you look just like a tom-fool . i must not wear it otherwise , said he , for if i set my hat straight , a terrible frost comes on , and all the birds in the air are frozen , and drop dead on the ground . oh , come with me , said the master . if we six are together , we can carry the whole world before us . now the six came to a town where the king had proclaimed that whosoever ran a race with his daughter and won the victory , should be her husband , but whosoever lost it , must lose his head . then the man presented himself and said , i will , however , let my servant run for me . the king replied , then his life also must be staked , so that his head and yours are both set on the victory . when that was settled and made secure , the man buckled the other leg on the runner , and said to him , now be nimble , and help us to win . it was fixed that the one who was first to bring some water from a far distant well was to be the victor . the runner received a pitcher , and the king's daughter one too , and they began to run at the same time , but in an instant , when the king's daughter had got a very little way , the people who were looking on could see no more of the runner , and it was just as if the wind had whistled by . in a short time he reached the well , filled his pitcher with water , and turned back . half-way home , however , he was overcome with fatigue , and set his pitcher down , lay down himself , and fell asleep . but he had made a pillow of a horse's skull which was lying on the ground , in order that he might lie uncomfortably , and soon wake up again . in the meantime the king's daughter , who could also run very well - quite as well as any ordinary mortal can - had reached the well , and was hurrying back with her pitcher full of water , and when she saw the runner lying there asleep , she was glad and said , my enemy is delivered over into my hands , emptied his pitcher , and ran on . and now all would have been lost if by good luck the huntsman had not been standing at the top of the castle , and had not seen everything with his sharp eyes . then said he , the king's daughter shall still not prevail against us . and he loaded his gun , and shot so cleverly , that he shot the horse's skull away from under the runner's head without hurting him . then the runner awoke , leapt up , and saw that his pitcher was empty , and that the king's daughter was already far in advance . he did not lose heart , however , but ran back to the well with his pitcher , again drew some water , and was at home again even ten minutes before the king's daughter . behold , said he , only now have i begun to use my legs . what i did before did not deserve to be called running . but it pained the king , and still more his daughter , that she should be carried off by a common discharged soldier like that . so they took counsel with each other how to get rid of him and his companions . then said the king to her , i have thought of a way . don't be afraid , they shall not come back again . and he said to them , you shall now make merry together , and eat and drink , and he conducted them to a room which had a floor of iron , and the doors also were of iron , and the windows were guarded with iron bars . there was a table in the room covered with delicious food , and the king said to them , go in , and enjoy yourselves . and when they were inside , he ordered the doors to be shut and bolted . then he sent for the cook , and commanded him to make a fire under the room until the iron became red-hot . this the cook did , and the six who were sitting at table began to feel quite warm , and they thought the heat was caused by the food . but as it became still greater , and they wanted to get out , and found that the doors and windows were bolted , they became aware that the king must have an evil intention , and wanted to suffocate them . he shall not succeed , however , said the one with the cap . i will cause a frost to come , before which the fire shall be ashamed , and creep away . then he put his cap on straight , and immediately there came such a frost that all heat disappeared , and the food on the dishes began to freeze . when an hour or two had passed by , and the king believed that they had perished in the heat , he had the doors opened to behold them himself . but when the doors were opened , all six were standing there , alive and well , and said that they should very much like to get out to warm themselves , for the very food was fast frozen to the dishes with the cold . then , full of anger , the king went down to the cook , scolded him , and asked why he had not done what he had been ordered to do . but the cook replied , there is heat enough there , just look yourself . then the king saw that a fierce fire was burning under the iron room , and perceived that there was no getting the better of the six in this way . again the king considered how to get rid of his unpleasant guests , and caused their chief to be brought and said , if you will take gold and renounce my daughter , you shall have as much as you will . oh , yes , lord king , he answered , give me as much as my servant can carry , and i will not ask for your daughter . on this the king was satisfied , and the other continued , in fourteen days , i will come and fetch it . thereupon he summoned together all the tailors in the whole kingdom , and they were to sit for fourteen days and sew a sack . and when it was ready , the strong one who could tear up trees had to take it on his back , and go with it to the king . then said the king , who can that strong fellow be who is carrying a bundle of linen on his back that is as big as a house . and he was alarmed and said , what a lot of gold he can carry away . then he commanded a ton of gold to be brought , which took sixteen of his strongest men to carry , but the strong one snatched it up in one hand , put it in his sack , and said , why don't you bring more at the same time . that hardly covers the bottom . then , little by little , the king caused all his treasure to be brought thither , and the strong one pushed it into the sack , and still the sack was not half full with it . bring more , cried he , these few crumbs don't fill it . then seven thousand carts with gold had to be gathered together in the whole kingdom , and the strong one thrust them and the oxen harnessed to them into his sack . i will examine it no longer , said he , but will just take what comes , so long as the sack is but full . when all that was inside , there was still room for a great deal more . then he said , i will just make an end of the thing . people do sometimes tie up a sack even when it is not full . so he took it on his back , and went away with his comrades . when the king now saw how one single man was carrying away the entire wealth of the country , he became enraged , and bade his horsemen mount and pursue the six , and ordered them to take the sack away from the strong one . two regiments speedily overtook the six , and called out , you are prisoners , put down the sack with the gold , or you will be cut to pieces . what say you , cried the blower , that we are prisoners . rather than that should happen , all of you shall dance about in the air . and he closed one nostril , and with the other blew on the two regiments . then they were driven away from each other , and carried into the blue sky over all the mountains , one here , the other there . one sergeant cried for mercy . he had nine wounds , and was a brave fellow who did not deserve ill treatment . the blower stopped a little so that he came down without injury , and then the blower said to him . now go home to your king , and tell him he had better send some more horsemen , and i will blow them all into the air . when the king was informed of this he said , let the rascals go . there is magic in them . then the six conveyed the riches home , divided it amongst them , and lived in content until their death .