there was once a king's son , who was no longer content to stay at home in his father's house , and as he had no fear of anything , he thought , i will go forth into the wide world , there the time will not seem long to me , and i shall see wonders enough . so he took leave of his parents , and went forth , and on and on from morning till night , and whichever way his path led it was the same to him . it came to pass that he arrived at the house of a giant , and as he was so tired he sat down by the door and rested . and as he let his eyes roam here and there , he saw the giant's playthings lying in the yard . these were a couple of enormous balls , and nine-pins as tall as a man . after a while he had a fancy to set the nine-pins up and then rolled the balls at them , and screamed and cried out when the nine-pins fell , and had a merry time of it . the giant heard the noise , stretched his head out of the window , and saw a man who was not taller than other men , and yet played with his nine-pins . " little worm , " cried he , " why are you playing with my balls ? who gave you strength to do it ? " the king's son looked up , saw the giant , and said , " oh , you blockhead , you think indeed that you only have strong arms , i can do everything i want to do . " the giant came down and watched the bowling with great admiration , and said , " child of man , if you are one of that kind , go and bring me an apple of the tree of life . " " what do you want with it ? " said the king's son . " i do not want the apple for myself , " answered the giant , " but i have a betrothed bride who wishes for it . i have traveled far about the world and cannot find the tree . " " i will soon find it , " said the king's son , " and i do not know what is to prevent me from getting the apple down . " the giant said , " you really believe it to be so easy . the garden in which the tree stands is surrounded by an iron railing , and in front of the railing lie wild beasts , each close to the other , and they keep watch and let no man go in . " " they will be sure to let me in , " said the king's son . " yes , but even if you do get into the garden , and see the apple hanging to the tree , it is still not yours . a ring hangs in front of it , through which any one who wants to reach the apple and break it off , must put his hand , and no one has yet had the luck to do it . " " that luck will be mine , " said the king's son . then he took leave of the giant , and went forth over mountain and valley , and through plains and forests , until at length he came to the wondrous garden . the beasts lay round about it , but they had put their heads down and were asleep . moreover , they did not awake when he went up to them , so he stepped over them , climbed the fence , and got safely into the garden . there , in the very middle of it , stood the tree of life , and the red apples were shining upon the branches . he climbed up the trunk to the top , and as he was about to reach out for an apple , he saw a ring hanging before it , but he thrust his hand through that without any difficulty , and picked the apple . the ring closed tightly on his arm , and all at once he felt a prodigious strength flowing through his veins . when he had come down again from the tree with the apple , he would not climb over the fence , but grasped the great gate , and had no need to shake it more than once before it sprang open with a loud crash . then he went out , and the lion which had been lying in front of the gate , was awake and sprang after him , not in rage and fierceness , but following him humbly as its master . the king's son took the giant the apple he had promised him , and said , " you see , i have brought it without difficulty . " the giant was glad that his desire had been so soon satisfied , hastened to his bride , and gave her the apple for which she had wished . she was a beautiful and wise maiden , and as she did not see the ring on his arm , she said , " i shall never believe that you have brought the apple , until i see the ring on your arm . " the giant said , " i have nothing to do but go home and fetch it , " and thought it would be easy to take away by force from the weak man , what he would not give of his own free will . he therefore demanded the ring from him , but the king's son refused it . " where the apple is , the ring must be also , " said the giant . " if you will not give it of your own accord , you must fight me for it . " they wrestled with each other for a long time , but the giant could not harm the king's son , who was strengthened by the magical power of the ring . then the giant thought of a ruse , and said , " i have got warm with fighting , and so have you . we will bathe in the river , and cool ourselves before we begin again . " the king's son , who knew nothing of falsehood , went with him to the water , and pulled off with his clothes the ring also from his arm , and sprang into the river . the giant instantly snatched the ring , and ran away with it , but the lion , which had observed the theft , pursued the giant , tore the ring out of his hand , and brought it back to its master . then the giant placed himself behind an oak-tree , and while the king's son was busy putting on his clothes again , surprised him , and put both his eyes out . and now the unhappy king's son stood there , and was blind and knew not how to help himself . then the giant came back to him , took him by the hand as if he were someone who wanted to guide him , and led him to the top of a high rock . there he left him standing , and thought , " just two steps more , and he will fall down and kill himself , and i can take the ring from him . " but the faithful lion had not deserted its master . it held him fast by the clothes , and drew him gradually back again . when the giant came and wanted to rob the dead man , he saw that his cunning had been in vain . " is there no way , then , of destroying a weak child of man like that ? " said he angrily to himself , and seized the king's son and led him back again to the precipice by another way , but the lion which saw his evil design , helped its master out of danger here also . when they had come close to the edge , the giant let the blind man's hand drop , and was going to leave him behind alone , but the lion pushed the giant so that he was thrown down and fell , dashed to pieces , on the ground . the faithful animal again drew its master back from the precipice , and guided him to a tree by which flowed a clear brook . the king's son sat down there , but the lion lay down , and sprinkled the water in his face with its paws . scarcely had a couple of drops wetted the sockets of his eyes , than he was once more able to see something , and noticed a little bird flying quite close by , which hit itself against the trunk of a tree . so it went down to the water and bathed itself therein , and then it soared upwards and swept between the trees without touching them , as if it had recovered its sight . then the king's son recognized a sign from god and stooped down to the water , and washed and bathed his face in it . and when he arose he had his eyes once more , brighter and clearer than they had ever been . the king's son thanked god for his great mercy , and traveled with his lion onwards through the world . and it came to pass that he arrived before a castle which was enchanted . in the gateway stood a maiden of beautiful form and fine face , but she was quite black . she spoke to him and said , " ah , if you could but deliver me from the evil spell which is thrown over me . " " what shall i do ? " said the king's son . the maiden answered , " you must pass three nights in the great hall of this enchanted castle , but you must let no fear enter your heart . when they are doing their worst to torment you , if you bear it without letting a sound escape you , i shall be free . your life they dare not take . " then said the king's son , " i have no fear , with god's help i will try it . " so he went gaily into the castle , and when it grew dark he seated himself in the large hall and waited . everything was quiet , however , till midnight , when all at once a great tumult began , and out of every hole and corner came little devils . they behaved as if they did not see him , seated themselves in the middle of the room , lighted a fire , and began to gamble . when one of them lost , he said , " it is not right , some one is here who does not belong to us , it is his fault that i am losing . " " wait , you fellow behind the stove , i am coming , " said another . the screaming became still louder , so that no one could have heard it without terror . the king's son stayed sitting quite calmly , and was not afraid , but at last the devils jumped up from the ground , and fell on him , and there were so many of them that he could not defend himself from them . they dragged him about on the floor , pinched him , pricked him , beat him , and tormented him , but no sound escaped from him . towards morning they disappeared , and he was so exhausted that he could scarcely move his limbs , but when day dawned the black maiden came to him . she bore in her hand a little bottle wherein was the water of life wherewith she washed him , and he at once felt all pain depart and new strength flow through his veins . she said , " you have held out successfully for one night , but two more lie before you . " then she went away again , and as she was going , he observed that her feet had become white . the next night the devils came and began their gambling anew . they fell on the king's son , and beat him much more severely than the night before , until his body was covered with wounds . but as he bore all quietly , they were forced to leave him , and when dawn appeared , the maiden came and healed him with the water of life . and when she went away , he saw with joy that she had already become white to the tips of her fingers . and now he had only one night more to go through , but it was the worst . the devils came again , " are you still there ? " cried they . " you shall be tormented till your breath stops . " they pricked him and beat him , and threw him here and there , and pulled him by the arms and legs as if they wanted to tear him to pieces , but he bore everything , and never uttered a cry . at last the devils vanished , but he lay fainting there , and did not stir , nor could he raise his eyes to look at the maiden who came in , and sprinkled and bathed him with the water of life . but suddenly he was freed from all pain , and felt fresh and healthy as if he had awakened from sleep , and when he opened his eyes he saw the maiden standing by him , snow-white , and fair as day . " rise , " said she , " and swing your sword three times over the stairs , and then all will be delivered . " and when he had done that , the whole castle was released from enchantment , and the maiden was a rich king's daughter . the servants came and said that the table was set in the great hall , and dinner served up . then they sat down and ate and drank together , and in the evening the wedding was solemnized with great rejoicings .