there was once a tailor , who was a quarrelsome fellow , and his wife , who was good , industrious , and pious , never could please him . whatever she did , he was not satisfied , but grumbled and scolded , and knocked her about and beat her . as the authorities at last heard of it , they had him summoned and put in prison in order to make him better . he was kept for a while on bread and water , and then set free again . he was forced , however , to promise not to beat his wife any more , but to live with her in peace , and share joy and sorrow with her , as married people ought to do . all went on well for a time , but then he fell into his old ways and was surly and quarrelsome . and because he dared not beat her , he would seize her by the hair and tear it out . the woman escaped from him , and sprang out into the yard , but he ran after her with his yard-measure and scissors , and chased her about , and threw the yard-measure and scissors at her , and whatever else came his way . when he hit her he laughed , and when he missed her , he stormed and swore . this went on so long that the neighbors came to the wife's assistance . the tailor was again summoned before the magistrates , and reminded of his promise . dear gentlemen , said he , i have kept my word , i have not beaten her , but have shared joy and sorrow with her . how can that be , said the judge , as she continues to bring such heavy complaints against you . i have not beaten her , but just because she looked so strange i wanted to comb her hair with my hand . she , however , got away from me , and left me quite spitefully . then i hurried after her , and in order to bring her back to her duty , i threw at her as a well-meant reminder whatever came readily to hand . i have shared joy and sorrow with her also , for whenever i hit her i was full of joy and she of sorrow , and if i missed her , then she was joyful , and i sorry . the judges were not satisfied with this answer , but gave him the reward he deserved .