there was once a young fellow who enlisted as a soldier , conducted himself bravely , and was always the foremost when it rained bullets . so long as the war lasted , all went well , but when peace was made , he received his dismissal , and the captain said he might go where he liked . his parents were dead , and he had no longer a home , so he went to his brothers and begged them to take him in , and keep him until war broke out again . the brothers , however , were hard-hearted and said , " what can we do with you ? you are of no use to us , go and make a living for yourself . " the soldier had nothing left but his gun , so he took that on his shoulder , and went forth into the world . he came to a wide heath , on which nothing was to be seen but a circle of trees , under these he sat sorrowfully down , and began to think over his fate . i have no money , thought he , i have learnt no trade but that of fighting , and now that they have made peace they don't want me any longer , so i see before hand that i shall have to starve . all at once he heard a rustling and when he looked round , a strange man stood before him , who wore a green coat and looked right stately , but had a hideous cloven foot . " i know already what you are in need of , " said the man , " gold and possessions shall you have , as much as you can make away with , do what you will , but first i must know if you are fearless , that i may not bestow my money in vain . " " a soldier and fear - how can those two things go together ? " he answered , " you can put me to the proof . " " very well , then , " answered the man , " look behind you . " the soldier turned round , and saw a large bear , which came growling towards him . " oho , " cried the soldier , " i will tickle your nose for you , so that you shall soon lose your fancy for growling , " and he aimed at the bear and shot it through the muzzle , it fell down and never stirred again . " i see quite well , " said the stranger , " that you are not wanting in courage , but there is still another condition which you will have to fulfil . " " if it does not endanger my salvation , " replied the soldier , who knew very well who was standing by him . " if it does , i'll have nothing to do with it . " " you will look to that for yourself , " answered greencoat , " you shall for the next seven years neither wash yourself , nor comb your beard , nor your hair , nor cut your nails , nor once say the lord's prayer . i will give you a coat and a cloak , which during this time you must wear . if you die during these seven years , you are mine , if you remain alive , you are free , and rich to boot , for all the rest of your life . " the soldier thought of the great extremity in which he now found himself , and as he so often had gone to meet death , he resolved to risk it now also , and agreed to the terms . the devil took off his green coat , and gave it to the soldier , and said , " if you have this coat on your back and put your hand into the pocket , you will always find it full of money . " then he pulled the skin off the bear and said , " this shall be your cloak , and your bed also , for thereon shall you sleep , and and in no other bed shall you lie , and because of this apparel shall you be called bearskin . " whereupon the devil vanished . the soldier put the coat on , felt at once in the pocket , and found that the thing was really true . then he put on the bearskin and went forth into the world , and enjoyed himself , refraining from nothing that did him good and his money harm . during the first year his appearance was passable , but during the second he began to look like a monster . his hair covered nearly the whole of his face , his beard was like a piece of coarse felt , his fingers had claws , and his face was so covered with dirt that if cress had been sown on it , it would have come up . whosoever saw him , ran away , but as he everywhere gave the poor money to pray that he might not die during the seven years , and as he paid well for everything he still always found shelter . in the fourth year , he entered an inn where the landlord would not receive him , and would not even let him have a place in the stable , because he was afraid the horses would be scared . but as bearskin thrust his hand into his pocket and pulled out a handful of ducats , the host let himself be persuaded and gave him a room in an outhouse . bearskin , however , was obliged to promise not to let himself be seen , lest the inn should get a bad name . as bearskin was sitting alone in the evening , and wishing from the bottom of his heart that the seven years were over , he heard a loud lamenting in a neighboring room . he had a compassionate heart , so he opened the door , and saw an old man weeping bitterly , and wringing his hands . bearskin went nearer , but the man sprang to his feet and tried to escape from him . at last when the man perceived that bearskin's voice was human he let himself be prevailed upon , and by kind words bearskin succeeded so far that the old man revealed the cause of his grief . his property had dwindled away by degrees , he and his daughters would have to starve , and he was so poor that he could not pay the innkeeper , and was to be put in prison . " if that is your only trouble , " said bearskin , " i have plenty of money . " he caused the innkeeper to be brought thither , paid him and even put a purse full of gold into the poor old man's pocket . when the old man saw himself set free from all his troubles he did not know how to show his gratitude . " come with me , " said he to bearskin , " my daughters are all miracles of beauty , choose one of them for yourself as a wife . when she hears what you have done for me , she will not refuse you . you do in truth look a little strange , but she will soon put you to rights again . " this pleased bearskin well , and he went . when the eldest saw him she was so terribly alarmed at his face that she screamed and ran away . the second stood still and looked at him from head to foot , but then she said , " how can i accept a husband who no longer has a human form ? the shaven bear that once was here and passed itself off for a man pleased me far better , for at any rate it wore a hussar's dress and white gloves . if he were only ugly , i might get used to that . " the youngest , however , said , " dear father , that must be a good man to have helped you out of your trouble , so if you have promised him a bride for doing it , your promise must be kept . " it was a pity that bearskin's face was covered with dirt and with hair , for if not they might have seen how delighted he was when he heard these words . he took a ring from his finger , broke it in two , and gave her one half , the other he kept for himself . then he wrote his name on her half , and hers on his , and begged her to keep her piece carefully . then he took his leave and said , " i must still wander about for three years , and if i do not return then , you are free , for i shall be dead . but pray to god to preserve my life . " the poor betrothed bride dressed herself entirely in black , and when she thought of her future bridegroom , tears came into her eyes . nothing but contempt and mockery fell to her lot from her sisters . " take care , " said the eldest , " if you give him your hand , he will strike his claws into it . " " beware , " said the second . " bears like sweet things , and if he takes a fancy to you , he will eat you up . " " you must always do as he likes , " began the elder again , or else he will growl . " and the second continued , " but the wedding will be a merry one , for bears dance well . " the bride was silent , and did not let them vex her . bearskin , however , traveled about the world from one place to another , did good where he was able , and gave generously to the poor that they might pray for him . at length , as the last day of the seven years dawned , he went once more out on to the heath , and seated himself beneath the circle of trees . it was not long before the wind whistled , and the devil stood before him and looked angrily at him , then he threw bearskin his coat , and asked for his own green one back . " we have not got so far as that yet , " answered bearskin , " you must first make me clean . " whether the devil liked it or not , he was forced to fetch water , and wash bearskin , comb his hair , and cut his nails . after this , he looked like a brave soldier , and was much handsomer than he had ever been before . when the devil had gone away , bearskin was quite lighthearted . he went into the town , put on a magnificent velvet coat , seated himself in a carriage drawn by four white horses , and drove to his bride's house . no one recognized him . the father took him for a distinguished general , and led him into the room where his daughters were sitting . he was forced to place himself between the two eldest , who helped him to wine , gave him the best pieces of meat , and thought that in all the world they had never seen a handsomer man . the bride , however , sat opposite to him in her black dress , and never raised her eyes , nor spoke a word . when at length he asked the father if he would give him one of his daughters to wife , the two eldest jumped up , ran into their bedrooms to put on splendid dresses , for each of them fancied she was the chosen one . the stranger , as soon as he was alone with his bride , brought out his half of the ring , and threw it in a glass of wine which he handed across the table to her . she took the wine , but when she had drunk it , and found the half ring lying at the bottom , her heart began to beat . she got the other half , which she wore on a ribbon round her neck , joined them , and saw that the two pieces fitted exactly together . then said he , " i am your betrothed bridegroom , whom you saw as bearskin , but through god's grace i have again received my human form , and have once more become clean . " he went up to her , embraced her , and gave her a kiss . in the meantime the two sisters came back in full dress , and when they saw that the handsome man had fallen to the share of the youngest , and heard that he was bearskin , they ran out full of anger and rage . one of them drowned herself in the well , the other hanged herself on a tree . in the evening , some one knocked at the door , and when the bridegroom opened it , it was the devil in his green coat , who said , " you see , i have now got two souls in the place of your one . "