there was one upon a time a great war , and when it came to an end , many soldiers were discharged . then brother lustig also received his dismissal , and with it nothing but a small loaf of ammunition-bread , and four kreuzers in money , with which he departed . st . peter , however , had placed himself in his way in the form of a poor beggar , and when brother lustig came up , he begged alms of him . brother lustig replied , dear beggar-man , what am i to give you . i have been a soldier , and have received my dismissal , and have nothing but this little loaf of ammunition-bread , and four kreuzers of money . when that is gone , i shall have to beg as well as you . still i will give you something . thereupon he divided the loaf into four parts , and gave the apostle one of them , and a kreuzer likewise . st . peter thanked him , went onwards , and threw himself again in the soldier's way as a beggar , but in another shape , and when he came up begged a gift of him as before . brother lustig spoke as he had done before , and again gave him a quarter of the loaf and one kreuzer . st . peter thanked him , and went onwards , but for the third time placed himself in another shape as a beggar in the road , and spoke to brother lustig . brother lustig gave him also the third quarter of bread and the third kreuzer . st . peter thanked him , and brother lustig went onwards , and had but a quarter of the loaf , and one kreuzer . with that he went into an inn , ate the bread , and ordered one kreuzer's worth of beer . when he had had it , he journeyed onwards , and then st . peter , who had assumed the appearance of a discharged soldier , met and spoke to him thus . good day , comrade , can you not give me a bit of bread , and a kreuzer to get a drink . where am i to procure it , answered brother lustig . i have been discharged , and i got nothing but a loaf of ammunition-bread and four kreuzers in money . i met three beggars on the road , and i gave each of them a quarter of my bread , and one kreuzer . the last quarter i ate in the inn , and had a drink with the last kreuzer . now my pockets are empty , and if you also have nothing we can go a-begging together . no , answered st . peter , we need not quite do that . i know a little about medicine , and i will soon earn as much as i require by that . indeed , said brother lustig , i know nothing of that , so i must go and beg alone . just come with me , said st . peter , and if i earn anything , you shall have half of it . all right , said brother lustig , and they went away together . then they came to a peasant's house inside which they heard loud lamentations and cries . so they went in , and there the husband was lying sick unto death , and very near his end , and his wife was crying and weeping quite loudly . stop that howling and crying , said st . peter , i will make the man well again , and he took a salve out of his pocket , and healed the sick man in a moment , so that he could get up , and was in perfect health . in great delight the man and his wife said , how can we reward you . what shall we give you . but st . peter would take nothing , and the more the peasant folks offered him , the more he refused . brother lustig , however , nudged st . peter , and said , take something . sure enough we are in need of it . at length the woman brought a lamb and said to st . peter that he really must take that , but he would not . then brother lustig gave him a poke in the side , and said , do take it , you stupid fool . we are in great want of it . then st . peter said at last , well , i will take the lamb , but i won't carry it . if you insist on having it , you must carry it . that is nothing , said brother lustig . i will easily carry it , and took it on his shoulder . then they departed and came to a wood , but brother lustig had begun to feel the lamb heavy , and he was hungry , so he said to st . peter , look , that's a good place , we might cook the lamb there , and eat it . as you like , answered st . peter , but i can't have anything to do with the cooking . if you will cook , there is a kettle for you , and in the meantime i will walk about a little until it is ready . but you must not begin to eat until i have come back . i will come at the right time . well , go , then , said brother lustig . i understand cookery , i will manage it . then st . peter went away , and brother lustig killed the lamb , lighted a fire , threw the meat into the kettle , and boiled it . when the lamb , however , was quite ready , and the apostle peter had not come back , brother lustig took it out of the kettle , cut it up , and found the heart . that is said to be the best part , said he , and tasted it , but at last he ate it all up . at length st . peter returned and said , you may eat the whole of the lamb yourself , i will only have the heart , give me that . then brother lustig took a knife and fork , and pretended to look anxiously about amongst the lamb's flesh , but not to be able to find the heart , and at last he said abruptly , there is none here . but where can it be , said the apostle . i don't know , replied brother lustig , but look , what fools we both are , to seek for the lamb's heart , and neither of us to remember that a lamb has no heart . oh , said st . peter , that is something quite new . every animal has a heart , why is a lamb to have none . no , be assured , my brother , said brother lustig , that a lamb has no heart . just consider it seriously , and then you will see that it really has none . well , it is all right , said st . peter . if there is no heart , then i want none of the lamb . you may eat it alone . what i can't eat now , i will carry away in my knapsack , said brother lustig , and he ate half the lamb , and put the rest in his knapsack . they went farther , and then st . peter caused a great stream of water to flow right across their path , and they were obliged to pass through it . said st . peter , do you go first . no , answered brother lustig , you must go first , and he thought , if the water is too deep i will stay behind . then st . peter strode through it , and the water just reached to his knee . so brother lustig began to go through also , but the water grew deeper and reached to his throat . then he cried , brother , help me . st . peter said , then will you confess that you have eaten the lamb's heart . no , said he , i have not eaten it . then the water grew deeper still and rose to his mouth . help me , brother , cried the soldier . st . peter said , then will you confess that you have eaten the lamb's heart . no , he replied , i have not eaten it . st . peter , however , would not let him be drowned , but made the water sink and helped him through it . then they journeyed onwards , and came to a kingdom where they heard that the king's daughter lay sick unto death . hi , there , brother , said the soldier to st . peter , this is a chance for us . if we can heal her we shall be provided for , for life . but st . peter was not half quick enough for him . come , lift your legs , my dear brother , said he , that we may get there in time . but st . peter walked slower and slower , though brother lustig did all he could to drive and push him on , and at last they heard that the princess was dead . now we are done for , said brother lustig . that comes of your sleepy way of walking . just be quiet , answered st . peter , i can do more than cure sick people . i can bring dead ones to life again . well , if you can do that , said brother lustig , it's all right , but you should earn at least half the kingdom for us by that . then they went to the royal palace , where everyone was in great grief , but st . peter told the king that he would restore his daughter to life . he was taken to her , and said , bring me a kettle and some water , and when that was brought , he bade everyone go out , and allowed no one to remain with him but brother lustig . then he cut off all the dead girl's limbs , and threw them in the water , lighted a fire beneath the kettle , and boiled them . and when the flesh had fallen away from the bones , he took out the beautiful white bones , and laid them on a table , and arranged them together in their natural order . when he had done that , he stepped forward and said three times , in the name of the holy trinity , dead woman , arise . and at the third time , the princess arose , living , healthy and beautiful . then the king was in the greatest joy , and said to st . peter , ask for your reward . even if it were half my kingdom , i would give it . but st . peter said , i want nothing for it . oh , you tomfool , thought brother lustig to himself , and nudged his comrade's side , and said , don't be so stupid . if you have no need of anything , i have . st . peter , however , would have nothing , but as the king saw that the other would very much like to have something , he ordered his treasurer to fill brother lustig's knapsack with gold . then they went on their way , and when they came to a forest , st . peter said to brother lustig , now , we will divide the gold . yes , he replied , we will . so st . peter divided the gold , and divided it into three heaps . brother lustig thought to himself , what crazy idea has he got in his head now . he is making three shares , and there are only two of us . but st . peter said , i have divided it exactly . there is one share for me , one for you and one for him who ate the lamb's heart . oh , i ate that , replied brother lustig , and hastily swept up the gold . you may trust what i say . but how can that be true , said st . peter , when a lamb has no heart . eh , what , brother , what can you be thinking of . lambs have hearts like other animals , why should only they have none . well , so be it , said st . peter , keep the gold to yourself , but i will stay with you no longer . i will go my way alone . as you like , dear brother , answered brother lustig . farewell . then st . peter went a different road , but brother lustig thought , it is a good thing that he has taken himself off , he is certainly a strange saint . then he had money enough , but did not know how to manage it , squandered it , gave it away , and and when some time had gone by , once more had nothing . then he arrived in a certain country where he heard that a king's daughter was dead . oh , ho , thought he , that may be a good thing for me . i will bring her to life again , and see that i am paid as i ought to be . so he went to the king , and offered to raise the dead girl to life again . now the king had heard that a discharged soldier was traveling about and bringing dead persons to life again , and thought that brother lustig was the man . but as he had no confidence in him , he consulted his councillors first , who said that he might give it a trial as his daughter was dead . then brother lustig ordered water to be brought to him in a kettle , bade every one go out , cut the limbs off , threw them in the water and lighted a fire beneath , just as he had seen st . peter do . the water began to boil , the flesh fell off , and then he took the bones out and laid them on the table , but he did not know the order in which to lay them , and placed them all wrong and in confusion . then he stood before them and said , in the name of the most holy trinity , dead maiden , i bid you arise , and he said this thrice , but the bones did not stir . so he said it thrice more , but also in vain . confounded girl that you are , get up , cried he , get up , or it shall be the worse for you . when he had said that , st . peter suddenly appeared in his former shape as a discharged soldier . he entered by the window and said , godless man , what are you doing . how can the dead maiden arise , when you have thrown about her bones in such confusion . dear brother , i have done everything to the best of my ability , he answered . this once , i will help you out of your difficulty , but one thing i tell you , and that is that if ever you undertake anything of the kind again , it will be the worse for you , and also that you must neither demand nor accept the smallest thing from the king for this . thereupon st . peter laid the bones in their right order , said to the maiden three times , in the name of the most holy trinity , dead maiden , arise , and the king's daughter arose , healthy and beautiful as before . then st . peter went away again by the window , and brother lustig was rejoiced to find that all had passed off so well , but was very much vexed to think that after all he was not to take anything for it . i should just like to know , thought he , what fancy that fellow has got in his head , for what he gives with one hand he takes away with the other - there is no sense whatever in it . then the king offered brother lustig whatsoever he wished to have , but he did not dare to take anything . however , by hints and cunning , he contrived to make the king order his knapsack to be filled with gold for him , and with that he departed . when he got out , st . peter was standing by the door , and said , just look what a man you are . did i not forbid you to take anything , and there you have your knapsack full of gold . how can i help that , answered brother lustig , if people will put it in for me . well , i tell you this , that if ever you set about anything of this kind again you shall suffer for it . all right , brother , have no fear , now i have money , why should i trouble myself with washing bones . faith , said st . peter , a long time that gold will last . in order that after this you may never tread in forbidden paths , i will bestow on your knapsack this property , namely , that whatsoever you wish to have inside it , shall be there . farewell , you will now never see me more . good-bye , said brother lustig , and thought to himself , i am very glad that you have taken yourself off , you strange fellow . i shall certainly not follow you . but of the magical power which had been bestowed on his knapsack , he thought no more . brother lustig traveled about with his money , and squandered and wasted what he had as before . when at last he had no more than four kreuzers , he passed by an inn and thought , the money must go , and ordered three kreuzers , worth of wine and one kreuzer's worth of bread for himself . as he was sitting there drinking , the smell of roast goose made its way to his nose . brother lustig looked about and peeped , and saw that the host had two geese roasting in the oven . then he remembered that his comrade had said that whatsoever he wished to have in his knapsack should be there , so he said , oh , ho . i must try that with the geese . so he went out , and when he was outside the door , he said , i wish those two roasted geese out of the oven and in my knapsack , and when he had said that , he unbuckled it and looked in , and there they were inside it . ah , that's right , said he , now i am a made man , and went away to a meadow and took out the roast meat . when he was in the midst of his meal , two journeymen came up and looked at the second goose , which was not yet touched , with hungry eyes . brother lustig thought to himself , one is enough for me , and called the two men up and said , take the goose , and eat it to my health . they thanked him , and went with it to the inn , ordered themselves a half bottle of wine and a loaf , took out the goose which had been given them , and began to eat . the hostess saw them and said to her husband , those two are eating a goose . just look and see if it is not one of ours , out of the oven . the landlord ran thither , and behold the oven was empty . what , cried he , you thievish crew , you want to eat goose as cheap as that . pay for it this moment , or i will wash you well with green hazel-sap . the two said , we are no thieves , a discharged soldier gave us the goose , outside there in the meadow . you shall not throw dust in my eyes that way . the soldier was here , but he went out by the door , like an honest fellow . i looked after him myself . you are the thieves and shall pay . but as they could not pay , he took a stick , and cudgeled them out of the house . brother lustig went his way and came to a place where there was a magnificent castle , and not far from it a wretched inn . he went to the inn and asked for a night's lodging , but the landlord turned him away , and said , there is no more room here , the house is full of noble guests . it surprises me that they should come to you and not go to that splendid castle , said brother lustig . ah , indeed , replied the host , but it is no slight matter to sleep there for a night . no one who has tried it so far , has ever come out of it alive . if others have tried it , said brother lustig , i will try it too . leave it alone , said the host , it will cost you your neck . it won't kill me at once , said brother lustig , just give me the key , and some good food and wine . so the host gave him the key , and food and wine , and with this brother lustig went into the castle , enjoyed his supper , and at length , as he was sleepy , he lay down on the ground , for there was no bed . he soon fell asleep , but during the night was disturbed by a great noise , and when he awoke , he saw nine ugly devils in the room , who had made a circle , and were dancing around him . brother lustig said , well , dance as long as you like , but none of you must come too close . but the devils pressed continually nearer to him , and almost stepped on his face with their hideous feet . stop , you devils , ghosts , said he , but they behaved still worse . then brother lustig grew angry , and cried , stop . you'll soon see how i can make you quiet , and got the leg of a chair and struck out into the midst of them with it . but nine devils against one soldier were still too many , and when he struck those in front of him , the others seized him behind by the hair , and tore it unmercifully . devils , crew , cried he , this is too much , but just wait . into my knapsack , all nine of you . in an instant they were in it , and then he buckled it up and threw it into a corner . after this all was suddenly quiet , and brother lustig lay down again , and slept till it was bright day . then came the inn-keeper , and the nobleman to whom the castle belonged , to see how he had fared . but when they perceived that he was merry and well they were astonished , and asked , have the spirits done you no harm , then . the reason why they have not , answered brother lustig , is because i have got the whole nine of them in my knapsack . you may once more inhabit your castle quite tranquilly , none of them will ever haunt it again . the nobleman thanked him , made him rich presents , and begged him to remain in his service , and he would provide for him as long as he lived . no , replied brother lustig , i am used to wandering about , i will travel farther . then he went away , and entered into a smithy , laid the knapsack , which contained the nine devils on the anvil , and asked the smith and his apprentices to strike it . so they smote with their great hammers with all their strength , and the devils uttered howls which were quite pitiable . when he opened the knapsack after this , eight of them were dead , but one which had been lying in a fold of it , was still alive , slipped out , and went back again to hell . thereupon brother lustig traveled a long time about the world , and those who know , can tell many a story about him . but at last he grew old , and thought of his end , so he went to a hermit who was known to be a pious man , and said to him , i am tired of wandering about , and want now to behave in such a manner that i shall enter into the kingdom of heaven . the hermit replied , there are two roads , one is broad and pleasant , and leads to hell , the other is narrow and rough , and leads to heaven . i should be a fool , thought brother lustig , if i were to take the narrow , rough road . so he set out and took the broad and pleasant road , and at length came to a great black door , which was the door of hell . brother lustig knocked , and the door-keeper peeped out to see who was there . but when he saw brother lustig , he was terrified , for he was the very same ninth devil who had been shut up in the knapsack , and had escaped from it with a black eye . so he pushed the bolt in again as quickly as he could , ran to the highest devil , and said , there is a fellow outside with a knapsack , who wants to come in , but as you value your lives don't allow him to enter , or he will wish the whole of hell into his knapsack . he once gave me a frightful hammering when i was inside it . so they called out to brother lustig that he was to go away again , for he should not get in there . if they won't have me here , thought he , i will see if i can find a place for myself in heaven , for i must stay somewhere . so he turned about and went onwards until he came to the door of heaven , where he knocked . st . peter was sitting hard by as door-keeper . brother lustig recognized him at once , and thought , here i find an old friend , i shall get on better . but st . peter said , i can hardly believe that you want to come into heaven . let me in , brother . i must get in somewhere . if they would have taken me into hell , i should not have come here . no , said st . peter , you shall not enter . then if you will not let me in , take your knapsack back , for i will have nothing at all from you . give it here , then , said st . peter . then brother lustig gave him the knapsack into heaven through the bars , and st . peter took it , and hung it beside his seat . then said brother lustig , and now i wish myself inside my knapsack , and in a second he was in it , and in heaven , and st . peter was forced to let him stay there .