there was once upon a time an old king who was ill and thought to himself 'i am lying on what must be my deathbed . ' then said he 'tell faithful john to come to me . ' faithful john was his favorite servant , and was so called , because he had for his whole life long been so true to him . when therefore he came beside the bed , the king said to him 'most faithful john , i feel my end approaching , and have no anxiety except about my son . he is still of tender age , and cannot always know how to guide himself . if you do not promise me to teach him everything that he ought to know , and to be his foster-father , i cannot close my eyes in peace . ' then answered faithful john 'i will not forsake him , and will serve him with fidelity , even if it should cost me my life . ' at this , the old king said 'now i die in comfort and peace . ' then he added 'after my death , you shall show him the whole castle - all the chambers , halls , and vaults , and all the treasures which lie therein , but the last chamber in the long gallery , in which is the picture of the princess of the golden dwelling , shall you not show . if he sees that picture , he will fall violently in love with her , and will drop down in a swoon , and go through great danger for her sake , therefore you must protect him from that . ' and when faithful john had once more given his promise to the old king about this , the king said no more , but laid his head on his pillow , and died . when the old king had been carried to his grave , faithful john told the young king all that he had promised his father on his deathbed , and said 'this will i assuredly keep , and will be faithful to you as i have been faithful to him , even if it should cost me my life . ' when the mourning was over , faithful john said to him 'it is now time that you should see your inheritance . i will show you your father's palace . ' then he took him about everywhere , up and down , and let him see all the riches , and the magnificent apartments , only there was one room which he did not open , that in which hung the dangerous picture . the picture , however , was so placed that when the door was opened you looked straight on it , and it was so admirably painted that it seemed to breathe and live , and there was nothing more charming or more beautiful in the whole world . the young king noticed , however , that faithful john always walked past this one door , and said 'why do you never open this one for me . ' 'there is something within it , he replied , 'which would terrify you . ' but the king answered 'i have seen all the palace , and i want to know what is in this room also , and he went and tried to break open the door by force . then faithful john held him back and said 'i promised your father before his death that you should not see that which is in this chamber , it might bring the greatest misfortune on you and on me . ' 'ah , no , replied the young king , 'if i do not go in , it will be my certain destruction . i should have no rest day or night until i had seen it with my own eyes . i shall not leave the place now until you have unlocked the door . ' then faithful john saw that there was no help for it now , and with a heavy heart and many sighs , sought out the key from the great bunch . when he opened the door , he went in first , and thought by standing before him he could hide the portrait so that the king should not see it in front of him . but what good was this . the king stood on tip-toe and saw it over his shoulder . and when he saw the portrait of the maiden , which was so magnificent and shone with gold and precious stones , he fell fainting to the ground . faithful john took him up , carried him to his bed , and sorrowfully thought 'the misfortune has befallen us , lord god , what will be the end of it . ' then he strengthened him with wine , until he came to himself again . the first words the king said were 'ah , the beautiful portrait . whose it it . ' 'that is the princess of the golden dwelling , answered faithful john . then the king continued 'my love for her is so great , that if all the leaves on all the trees were tongues , they could not declare it . i will give my life to win her . you are my most faithful john , you must help me . the faithful servant considered within himself for a long time how to set about the matter , for it was difficult even to obtain a sight of the king's daughter . at length he thought of a way , and said to the king 'everything which she has about her is of gold - tables , chairs , dishes , glasses , bowls , and household furniture . among your treasures are five tons of gold , let one of the goldsmiths of the kingdom fashion these into all manner of vessels and utensils , into all kinds of birds , wild beasts and strange animals , such as may please her , and we will go there with them and try our luck . ' the king ordered all the goldsmiths to be brought to him , and they had to work night and day until at last the most splendid things were prepared . when everything was stowed on board a ship , faithful john put on the dress of a merchant , and the king was forced to do the same in order to make himself quite unrecognizable . then they sailed across the sea , and sailed on until they came to the town wherein dwelt the princess of the golden dwelling . faithful john bade the king stay behind on the ship , and wait for him . 'perhaps i shall bring the princess with me , said he , 'therefore see that everything is in order , have the golden vessels set out and the whole ship decorated . ' then he gathered together in his apron all kinds of golden things , went on shore and walked straight to the royal palace . when he entered the courtyard of the palace , a beautiful girl was standing there by the well with two golden buckets in her hand , drawing water with them . and when she was just turning round to carry away the sparkling water she saw the stranger , and asked who he was . so he answered 'i am a merchant , and opened his apron , and let her look in . then she cried 'oh , what beautiful golden things . ' and put her pails down and looked at the golden wares one after the other . then said the girl 'the princess must see these , she has such great pleasure in golden things , that she will buy all you have . ' she took him by the hand and led him upstairs , for she was the waiting-maid . when the king's daughter saw the wares , she was quite delighted and said 'they are so beautifully worked , that i will buy them all from you . ' but faithful john said 'i am only the servant of a rich merchant . the things i have here are not to be compared with those my master has in his ship . they are the most beautiful and valuable things that have ever been made in gold . ' when she wanted to have everything brought up to her , he said 'there are so many of them that it would take a great many days to do that , and so many rooms would be required to exhibit them , that your house is not big enough . ' then her curiosity and longing were still more excited , until at last she said 'conduct me to the ship , i will go there myself , and behold the treasures of your master . ' at this faithful john was quite delighted , and led her to the ship , and when the king saw her , he perceived that her beauty was even greater than the picture had represented it to be , and thought no other than that his heart would burst in twain . then she boarded the ship , and the king led her within . faithful john , however , remained with the helmsman , and ordered the ship to be pushed off , saying 'set all sail , till it fly like a bird in the air . ' within , the king showed her the golden vessels , every one of them , also the wild beasts and strange animals . many hours went by whilst she was seeing everything , and in her delight she did not observe that the ship was sailing away . after she had looked at the last , she thanked the merchant and wanted to go home , but when she came to the side of the ship , she saw that it was on the high seas far from land , and hurrying onwards with all sail set . 'ah , cried she in her alarm , 'i am betrayed . i am carried away and have fallen into the power of a merchant - i would rather die . ' the king , however , seized her hand , and said 'i am not a merchant . i am a king , and of no meaner origin than you are , and if i have carried you away with subtlety , that has come to pass because of my exceeding great love for you . the first time that i looked on your portrait , i fell fainting to the ground . ' when the princess of the golden dwelling heard this , she was comforted , and her heart was drawn to him , so that she willingly consented to be his wife . it so happened , while they were sailing onwards over the deep sea , that faithful john , who was sitting on the fore part of the vessel , making music , saw three ravens in the air , which came flying towards them . at this he stopped playing and listened to what they were saying to each other , for that he well understood . one cried 'oh , there he is carrying home the princess of the golden dwelling . ' 'yes , replied the second , 'but he has not got her yet . ' said the third 'but he has got her , she is sitting beside him in the ship . ' then the first began again , and cried 'what good will that do him . when they reach land a chestnut horse will leap forward to meet him , and the prince will want to mount it , but if he does that , it will run away with him , and rise up into the air , and he will never see his maiden more . ' spoke the second 'but is there no escape . ' 'oh , yes , if someone else mounts it swiftly , and takes out the pistol which he will find in its holster , and shoots the horse dead , the young king is saved . but who knows that . and whosoever does know it , and tells it to him , will be turned to stone from the toe to the knee . ' then said the second 'i know more than that , even if the horse be killed , the young king will still not keep his bride . when they go into the castle together , a wrought bridal garment will be lying there in a dish , and looking as if it were woven of gold and silver , it is , however , nothing but sulphur and pitch , and if he put it on , it will burn him to the very bone and marrow . ' said the third 'is there no escape at all . ' 'oh , yes , replied the second , 'if any one with gloves on seizes the garment and throws it into the fire and burns it , the young king will be saved . but what good will that do . whosoever knows it and tells it to him , half his body will become stone from the knee to the heart . ' then said the third 'i know still more , even if the bridal garment be burnt , the young king will still not have his bride . after the wedding , when the dancing begins and the young queen is dancing , she will suddenly turn pale and fall down as if dead , and if some one does not lift her up and draw three drops of blood from her right breast and spit them out again , she will die . but if any one who knows that were to declare it , he would become stone from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot . ' when the ravens had spoken of this together , they flew onwards , and faithful john had well understood everything , but from that time forth he became quiet and sad , for if he concealed what he had heard from his master , the latter would be unfortunate , and if he disclosed it to him , he himself must sacrifice his life . at length , however , he said to himself 'i will save my master , even if it bring destruction on myself . ' when therefore they came to shore , all happened as had been foretold by the ravens , and a magnificent chestnut horse sprang forward . 'good , said the king , 'he shall carry me to my palace , and was about to mount it when faithful john got before him , jumped quickly on it , drew the pistol out of the holster , and shot the horse . then the other attendants of the king , who were not very fond of faithful john , cried 'how shameful to kill the beautiful animal , that was to have carried the king to his palace . ' but the king said 'hold your peace and leave him alone , he is my most faithful john . who knows what good may come of this . ' they went into the palace , and in the hall there stood a dish , and therein lay the bridal garment looking no otherwise than as if it were made of gold and silver . the young king went towards it and was about to take hold of it , but faithful john pushed him away , seized it with gloves on , carried it quickly to the fire and burnt it . the other attendants again began to murmur , and said 'behold , now he is even burning the king's bridal garment . ' but the young king said 'who knows what good he may have done , leave him alone , he is my most faithful john . ' and now the wedding was solemnized - the dance began , and the bride also took part in it , then faithful john was watchful and looked into her face , and suddenly she turned pale and fell to the ground as if she were dead . on this he ran hastily to her , lifted her up and bore her into a chamber - then he laid her down , and knelt and sucked the three drops of blood from her right breast , and spat them out . immediately she breathed again and recovered herself , but the young king had seen this , and being ignorant why faithful john had done it , was angry and cried 'throw him into a dungeon . ' next morning faithful john was condemned , and led to the gallows , and when he stood on high , and was about to be executed , he said 'every one who has to die is permitted before his end to make one last speech , may i too claim the right . ' 'yes , answered the king , 'it shall be granted unto you . ' then said faithful john 'i am unjustly condemned , and have always been true to you , and he related how he had hearkened to the conversation of the ravens when on the sea , and how he had been obliged to do all these things in order to save his master . then cried the king 'oh , my most faithful john . pardon , pardon - bring him down . ' but as faithful john spoke the last word he had fallen down lifeless and become a stone . thereupon the king and the queen suffered great anguish , and the king said 'ah , how ill i have requited great fidelity . ' and ordered the stone figure to be taken up and placed in his bedroom beside his bed . and as often as he looked on it he wept and said 'ah , if i could bring you to life again , my most faithful john . ' some time passed and the queen bore twins , two sons who grew fast and were her delight . once when the queen was at church and the father was sitting with his two children playing beside him , he looked at the stone figure again , sighed , and full of grief he said 'ah , if i could but bring you to life again , my most faithful john . ' then the stone began to speak and said 'you can bring me to life again if you will use for that purpose what is dearest to you . ' then cried the king 'i will give everything i have in the world for you . ' the stone continued 'if you will cut off the heads of your two children with your own hand , and sprinkle me with their blood , i shall be restored to life . ' the king was terrified when he heard that he himself must kill his dearest children , but he thought of faithful john's great fidelity , and how he had died for him , drew his sword , and with his own hand cut off the children's heads . and when he had smeared the stone with their blood , life returned to it , and faithful john stood once more safe and healthy before him . he said to the king 'your truth shall not go unrewarded , and took the heads of the children , put them on again , and rubbed the wounds with their blood , at which they became whole again immediately , and jumped about , and went on playing as if nothing had happened . then the king was full of joy , and when he saw the queen coming he hid faithful john and the two children in a great cupboard . when she entered , he said to her 'have you been praying in the church . ' 'yes , answered she , 'but i have constantly been thinking of faithful john and what misfortune has befallen him through us . ' then said he 'dear wife , we can give him his life again , but it will cost us our two little sons , whom we must sacrifice . ' the queen turned pale , and her heart was full of terror , but she said 'we owe it to him , for his great fidelity . ' then the king was rejoiced that she thought as he had thought , and went and opened the cupboard , and brought forth faithful john and the children , and said 'god be praised , he is delivered , and we have our little sons again also , and told her how everything had occurred . then they dwelt together in much happiness until their death .