there was once a poor woman who had a son , who much wished to travel , but his mother said , how can you travel . we have no money at all for you to take away with you . then said the son , i will manage very well for myself . i will always say , not much , not much , not much . so he walked for a long time and always said , not much , not much , not much . then he passed by a company of fishermen and said , god speed you . not much , not much , not much . what do you say , churl , not much . and when the net was drawn out they had not caught much fish . so one of them fell on the youth with a stick and said , have you never seen me threshing . what ought i to say , then , asked the youth . you must say - get it full , get it full . after this he again walked a long time , and said , get it full , get it full , until he came to the gallows , where they had got a poor sinner whom they were about to hang . then said he , good morning , get it full , get it full . what do you say , knave , get it full . do you want to make out that there are still more wicked people in the world . is not this enough . and he again got some blows on his back . what am i to say , then , said he . you must say , may god have pity on the poor soul . again the youth walked on for along while and said , may god have pity on the poor soul . then he came to a pit by which stood a knacker who was cutting up a horse . the youth said , good morning . god have pity on the poor soul . what do you say , you ill-tempered knave , and the knacker gave him such a box on the ear , that he could not see out of his eyes . what am i to say , then . you must say , let the carrion lie in the pit . so he walked on , and always said , let the carrion lie in the pit , let the carrion lie in the pit . and he came to a cart full of people , so he said , good morning , let the carrion lie in the pit . then the cart fell into a pit , and the driver took his whip and cracked it upon the youth , till he was forced to crawl back to his mother , and as long as he lived he never went out a traveling again .